^he ^Notre ^bame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
THE STAFF
ROBERT RIORDAN, Editor-in-Chief
EDITORIAL STAFF
GENE DIAMOND GEORGE DESPOT JAMES REGAN -james f. McCarthy AL KUENZLI -RALPH HAYMAN BOB O'TOOLE
Navy Associate Editor Managing Editor
- Sports Editor
- Feature Editor Advertising Manager Circulation Manager
- Promotion
.COLUMNISTS
POWER-WALTERS -	- The Green Banner
E. F. GILLESPIE ... The College Parade ART WAGNER -	-	-	- Swabbies Log
FRANK GUIDO .... Photography
REV. CHARLES M. CAREY. C.S.C. - Faculty Adviser
SPECIAL CONTRIBUTORS
FRANK GRIMALDI JOHN FEENEY	JOHN MILES
JOHN DEFANT	J. J. TENGE	LOUIS HAFNER
GERARD HEKKER DAN DANISZEWICZ ROBERT J. SHAW
OCTAVE EMOND TOM RYAN
JOHN THOMAS
PAUL WEYRAUCH
Member of Catholic School Press Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los-Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published weekly during the school year, except during vacations and examination periods at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, Administration Building, Notre Dame, Indiana.
2	.	-
College Parade
. . . By E. F. Gillespie
ACROSS THE CAMPUSES	.
Northwestern University more than met its quo.la for the Seventh War Loan Drive when it raised $65,000 more than its million dollar goal. . . Also from Northwestern we learn that 1200 seniors will graduate on June 13th in the 87th annual commencement exercises of the university. . . 15,000 Georgia Tech students and residents of Atlanta recently viewed the “Here's Your Infantry’' show which gave them an opportunity to familiarize themselves with men’s weapons, clothes, and packs, and to see how these weapons should be used. . . 1300 seniors at the University of Minnesota took part in the 72nd annual cap and gown day to be held at the university. . . Our own genial Ed McKeever has been named to the New York State Public High School Athletic Association’s coaching school to be held August 27th to September 1st at Hamilton College. Ed will serve under Carl -Widdoes, head coach at Ohio State, who is chairman of the coaching school.
Freshmen of Utah State Agriculture College recently took over the reins of their college government, and with various programs of activities and entertainments, attempted to show the upperclassmen what was in store for Utah State in the next three years. . . Down at Purdue, the “Hollywood Ice Revels” presented a show for the appreciation and enjoyment of students. . . Jack Tivnan, Holy Cross ace, pitched the first no-hit no-run game in the 25 years’ history of Jack Barry coached Purple teams. . . Alabama Polytechnic Institute was among the 27 colleges picked by the Navy department for the establishment of new NROTC units. . . Lieut. Oluf Olsen, who worked with British intelligence in Norway, gave an address on the Norwegian underground, at Indiana University last week.
TWO O.C.'S	~*~
“Where arc you going to eat this noon?” “Let's eat up the street.” “But, I don’t like asphalt.”
—The Plainsman
DAFFYNITIONS
Imagination is something that sits up with the wife when her husband is sitting up with a friend.—The Log.
Lipstick is something that adds flavor to an old pastime.
—The Log.
OUCH!!!	V
A patient in an insane asylum was trying to convince the attendant that he was Napoleon.
“But who told you that you were Napoleon?” inquired the attendant.
“God did.” replied the inmate.	*
“I did not!” came a voice from the next bunk. ,
HOW TO GET A DATE DEPARTMENT
Bob Meyer, Northwestern sophomore,, recently went on a business trip to Washington and ended up with a social call on President Truman. Bob was feverishly stowing away his toothbrush in preparation for the trip when his witty roommate quipped, “Hey, fellow, why don’t you get a date with Mary Margaret Truman while you are there?” (Continued on page nineteen)
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage, Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 84
JUNE 8. 1945
NO. 12
183 To Receive Degrees On June 22nd
Louisiana Club Lays Plans for Next Semester
Father Moore to Address Graduates; Over One-third Will Receive Honors.
The Louisiana Club is firmly established on campus for the first time since 1936. With 14 students from the Pelican state, organization was imminent.
Plans for the future are still in the initial stage, but it can be said they are numerous and extensive. The club’s constitution is now in the completion stage, and election of next semester’s officers will be held soon.
An investigation has been made by a committee of the club as to prospective students from Louisiana who will attend Notre Dame next semester, and it is expected that the club’s membership will total well over 20.
Members in the club at present are Mark Butirich, Pat Gaullagher, Charles Joiner, John Baddon, John Lindsey, Roy Cangelosi, Ernest Allezeyer, Clay Rogers, Kennit Rousseve, John Zimmerman, George Despot, and Joe Gehring.
Shreveport, La., leads numerically with four members, closely followed by New Orleans and Lake Charles. Four of the group are in the NROTC, one is a naval trainee, and the remainder are civilian students.
Classes Resume July 5
According to official word received by the SCHOLASTIC from the Office of the Director of Studies, the following program for the summer semester of 1945 is applicable to undergraduates:
July 2, Monday: Placement test in mathematics for new students in the Navy V-12;
July 3. Tuesday: Registration of new students of the Navy V-12 with the deans for courses in the summer semester.
July 4, Wednesday: Registration of old students of the Navy V-12 for courses, and registration of civilian students with the director of student accounts and with the deems. Fee for registration after July 4. $5.
July 5, Thursday: Classes begin at 8 am.
July 11. Wednesday: Latest derte for registration in courses.
The University this week announced the program for Commencement Day, June 22, which will follow the pattern set by previous war-time graduations. The abbreviated schedule for Commencement Day will be culminated with ' the convocation at 8:00 p.m., in Washington Hall for the awarding of the 183 degrees, with Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School, delivering the address.
Rev. Philip S. Moore. C.S.C.
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, will celebrate a low mass in the rear chapel of Sacred Heart church at 8:00 a.m., which all graduates will attend, and following the mass the farewell visit to the church will be made, conducted by Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C. At 9:00, after the farewell visit, all graduates are" invited to a communion breakfast to be held in the dining hall.
At 4:00 a reception will be held in
the Rockne Lounge for the graduates and their families. This reception has become a regular part of the commencement day program since its inception in October of 1944.
All graduates will assemble in Washington Hall in their caps and gowns at 7:45 Friday evening and the convocation wil start at 8:00.
Of the 183 degrees to be conferred at the convocation, over one-third will be with honors, fourteen magna cum laude, and fifty-one cum laude.
The largest number of degrees will be in Naval Science, with 81 of these being conferred. The Arts and Letters College will give 34 degrees, College of Science 22, Engineering College 23, College of Commerce 14, Law School 1, and the Graduate School 8.
Nine of the Arts and Letters degrees will be conferred Magna Cum Laude, with three of the engineering and two of the Naval Science degrees receiving the honor. Fifteen Arts and Letters degrees will be Cum Laude, with twenty-five Naval Science, seven Engineering, three Commerce, and one- Science degree receiving the same honor.
Publication Facts
(1)	NEXT WEEK—The SCHOLASTIC will- present its "Graduation Number." a special 32-page color issue, the last of the- current semester. Extra copies will be available at the Bookstore and Cafeteria, at 10 cents the copy.
(2)	NEXT SEMESTER—The SCHOLASTIC will not appear during the summer months. All paid-up subscriptions will be adjusted accordingly when the magazine resumes - publication in the autumn.
—The Editors
3
R.O.T.C. NAVAL BALL TONIGHT
Miss Kathleen Ball
At last the night has come. And with it the eighth NROTC Naval Ball—the culmination of two month’s planning and organization and the acme of this semester’s social activity. Raymond Scott will fill the South Bend Servicemen’s Center this evening with renditions especially for the 250 RO’s, their guests, and their patrons.
From the far reaches of the land have come a multitude of charming girls to behold the wonders performed by the NROTC under the energetic direction of Rudy Anderson and John Caron, co-
John Caron
Miss Beau Quinn
chairmen, and the untiring help of Lt. F. W. Pollard. Sharing the regal position as Queen of the Ball will be Miss Beau Quinn of Brooklyn, N. Y., guest of Rudy Anderson, and Miss Kathleen Ball of Winnetka, Ill., guest of John Caron. The Guest of Honor will be Miss Irene Tomsits of South Bend, escorted by Battalion Commander Bill Moore.
On this night of nights the full magnificence of the construction, design, and decoration of the ballroom will be revealed to all the celebrators. The refreshing theme has been completely developed with the subtle taste and flashing brilliance of Joe Lauck and Tom Brownell. Directing the muscle crews and conferring with countless electricians and engineers, they have finally redecorated the Servicemen’s Center into a scene that will take the imaginative ball-goers far from this little town in Indiana.
Raymond Scott will provide even further impetus to the vicarious meander-ings of those who want. tot get away from it all. He promises to play sweet and low for delighted couples and to make the intermissions few and far between. In between the populax- numbers sung by attractive blonde Dorothy Collins will be the inimitable special compositions that have made Scott nationally famous.
And when the few intermissions come, Dave Murphy will have his balcony cab
Miss Irene Tomsits
—DeGroff Photo....
aret in full swing with music and refreshments for all the exhausted dancers. There will also be a roving photographer to capture a hilarious moment oji film and to mount it in special souvenir folders. Genuine leather programs and NROTC match books will be the collectors’ delight and will help preserve memories long after the music stops. '
To bring the music and revelry to the unfortunates who cannot attend the ball, WSBT will broadcast the proceedings from 11:05 to 11:30. At 1:00 the danc-
Rudy Anderson
4
W. w. Moore
ing will end and delighted couples will catch a little sleep before beginning the other activities of the weekend. And it will be a weekend that will not soon be forgotten by the graduating engineers or by those who will remain to carry on the well founded traditions of memorable NROTC weekends.
Dr. Aaron Abell Joins
History Dept. Faculty
Notre Dame’s department of history announced this week the addition of Aaron Ignatius Abell, A.B., Ph.D., who will specialize in American history, beginning with the summer term next month.
A graduate of Harvard, Dr. Abell is particularly noted in the field of cultural and social history of the United States since the Civil War. He comes to Notre Dame from Nazareth college, Rochester, N. Y., according to Rev. Thomas A. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the history department. Dr. Abell has served on the faculties at St. Norbert’s college, New York University, and Rochester University.
In addition to making contributions to various historical periodicals, Dr. Abell is the author of a book called The Urban Impact on American Protestantism, 1865-1900.
Two special courses are being offered by the department for the summer terms, to be taught by Dr. Abell. During the six-week summer term a course called “Impact of the Labor Movement on American Society, 1865-1919” will be offered for graduate students. For the regular 16-week summer term Dr. Abell will teach, in addition to some existing American history courses, a schedule on the “Struggle for- Social Reform, 18901920.”	'
Cavanaugh Library Attendance Nears 1.000; Students Continue to Use Reading Room
Into Cavanaugh hall, down the stair’s into the former recreation room and you are in Notre Dame’s newest for the students, by the students, organization. The Cavanaugh Library, is definitely a new feature in campus life since it began this semester through the efforts of the chaplains, rectors, the administration, but largely, the students themselves.
Each day it grows larger and larger and each day more and more students drop in for a novel or a little research. The number of students who have made use of the library is fast approaching the one thousand mark and plans are now being formulated for the enlargement of the library, as to space and number of books.
As one felow said, “What I like, beside the twenty-five hundred books, is that array of easy chairs (most of which have been donated by outgoing draftees) and the fact that I can smoke there. If only they would pass out the cigarettes too, I don’t think I’d go home between semesters.”
Competition has run high between the graduate students and undergraduates as to who will serve as Librarian for
"Culture in Comfort"—Cavanaugh Beading Boom	—Photo by Guido
an evening, but somehow assignments are divided up.	■
As it is still in the early stages, the library is in need of many things. The search is on for lamps, ash trays, more chairs, but most of all the group wishes to keep the supply of books increasing. The successful start was made possible through the generosity of several individuals and, for the most part, through the students who contributed to a collection taken up early in the semester for books. A number of the boys want to make these collections a regular event and are working on the idea now, and it might be said that it is beneficial, not only to the library, but to the boys themselves for, after all, it is their library.
The library is open from seven to nine each evening except Saturday, but a campaign is on to have the time extended to nine-thirty.
Although it is not a large library, it boasts of a rather complete list of reading material: fiction, history, philosophy, sociology, art, liturgy, biographies, the annual University yearbook, the DOME, and the Scholastic. There are numerous periodicals, including the National Catholic Sociology and Historical Reviews and the Review of Politics, edited by Waldemar Gurian, professor of Political Science on the University faculty.
5
Official University Seal Symbolizes N.D.'s History and Traditions; Adopted in 1931
It is entirely appropriate that the University of Notre Dame should have and make use of a coat of arms that symbolizes her history, traditions and purpose. Even though the seal can be seen on all official documents, bulletins, rings and numerous other things on the campus, few students are familiar with its meaning.
The official seal of the University was adopted in 1931 and has remained the same since then. The colors of the seal, blue and gold, are the colors of the Blessed Virgin to whom Notre Dame is dedicated. Since the title of the University is “Universitas Dominae Nost-rae a Lacu,” translated “University of Our Lady of the Lake,” the star was chosen as Mary’s symbol in the shield of arms.
The shield in the center represents the Universe. At the base of the shield there are two wavy lines which represent the lakes and are expressive of the dedication of the University to the Star of the Sea. The Cross is the symbol of Catholicism and represents the Congregation of Holy Cross (C. S. C.), who founded and still maintain the University. The open book always symbolizes an institution of learning and the words on the open book “Vita, Dulcedo, Spes”
Student Book Exchange Ready for Seasonal Rush
The non-profit student book exchange will be open Saturday afternoon, June 16 at 2 p.m., in room 10 of the Administration Building, and will be open daily from 2 to 5 p.m. until the end of the semester. With the cooperation of the faculty, lists of all texts to be needed next semester have been drawn up, and only these texts will be accepted, but this includes almost all books now in use.
Prices will be determined by the retail sale prices listed in the catalogue of a well-known second-hand book company. A 10% service charge will be made against the retail prices to pay for the upkeep of the project, but this will still allow students prices 200 to 300% above those paid by professional buyers who invade the campus at the end of each semester. Students working at the BX donate their time free of charge.
The system used by the BX is simple: the owner brings in his books, and in turn is given a receipt. When the book is sold, the owner upon presentation of
are words spoken by St. Bernard to the Virgin Mother. They are taken from an old prayer of the Virgin, the “Salve Regina” and mean “Our Life, Our Sweetness, Our Hope.”
With the combination of all these phrases and symbols, the seal clearly indicates that the University is dedicated to Our Lady in all its aspects, intellectual, moral, and athletic.
—Louis Hafner.
his receipt may collect his money or apply it on the purchase of other texts. Those who will not be back next semester need only mention that fact, and their money will be forwarded to them at BX expense.
In operation since October, 1943, the BX was inaugurated because of the acute need for a central clearing-house for used texts. In its first semester the BX saved students an estimated $200, and this figure has risen sharply with each succeeding semester. In March it handled over $1000.
Campus morale has been boosted by the inauguration of fair prices for used texts. Gone is the endless waste and confusion at the beginning of each semester when students wandered in droves from hall to hall, seeking needed books from men who had them left from other semesters. The initial cost of texts needed for class has been lowered, and the change is welcomed by Brother Meinrad, C.S.C., of the campus bookstore, whose work is greatly simplified by the knowledge of how many used texts will be sold each semester.—F. J. Buckley
Economic Roundtable Hears Ragan and Garry
Paul Ragan, junior commerce student from Indianapolis, addressed • the Economic Roundtable on the “Chicago Air Conference,” Thursday evening, May 31. Mr. Ragan pointed out to those in attendance that, “the security of our nation in the future will be linked up with the extension and maintenance of our airlines abroad.
“With our constant need for direct communication, we will want our lines to extend around the globe. These airlines can best operate under a system of free competition with both foreign and domestic companies. This system will include the air freedoms which allow planes to travel over foreign countries, stop to refuel, and to pick up passengers and freight destined for other ports.”
The final speech of the Roundtable’s semester program was delivered last night by Michael Garry, senior commerce student, who spoke on the Tennessee Valley Authority. In concluding his excellent talk, Mr. Garry stated, “As it emerges, solid, financially secure, integrated, TVA will set a pattern for developing other rivers. Already, multiple purpose dams have been built on the Columbia River in the Northwest, on the Colorado in the Southwest, and on the Sacramento in California. A demand is mounting, as we have seen, for a Missouri Valley Authority.”
He continued, “People living in the valleys of all of our major rivers and in valleys all over- the world will some day come to do likewise. There is something here too important for humanity to overlook.”
Armstrong Travels Throughout the East
For the past week Mr. Armstrong, Secretary of the Alumni Association, has been in Wilmington, Delaware, Philadelphia and Allentown, Penn., showing the Notre Dame Movie to Alumni Clubs and Catholic High Schools. Not only was the movie received with enthusiasm but the Philadelphia Alumni Club is planning to show the film to high schools in the fall.
The Allentown High School, which Mr. Armstrong visited, have named their newly constructed Gym “Rockne Hall” after the immortal Knute Rockne. In control of the successful Athletic Department of the High School is a graduate of Notre Dame, Leo Crowe, ’34.
6
Father O'Donnell Delivers Baccalaureate at Michigan State Graduation Last Sunday
The San Francisco Conference will succeed or fail as the conference accepts or rejects the principles of the Declaration of Independence as they apply to the world, Father Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, told the graduating class of Michigan State College, at the baccalaureate service, last Sunday.
“In the words of the late President Roosevelt,” Father O’Donnell continued, “ ‘We are fighting for security and for progress, and for peace. . . . We are inspired by a faith that goes back through the ages to the first chapter of the Book of Genesis—God created man in His own image. . . . We are fighting as our fathers have fought, to uphold the doctrine that all men are equal in the sight of God.’ If these truths were basic when we entered the war, they are no less basic now. Having clarified our position then, we cannot be accused of breaking faith now when we insist that they be respected as the American approach to a peace with charity and justice.
25 Holy Cross Men To
Be Ordained Sunday
Twenty-five members of the Congregation of Holy Cross will be ordained to the priesthood on Sunday, June 10, according to an announcement by Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., provincial. Twenty-three of the young men will be ordained at solemn services in Sacred Heart church on the campus of the University, while two members will be ordained in Moncton, N.B., Canada.
His Excellency, Most Rev. Amleto Giovanni Cicognani, D.D., Apostolic Delegate of the United States, will conduct the ordination services on the Notre Dame campus at a solemn Mass at 8 o’clock Sunday morning.
Assistants at the Mass will be Rev. Christopher O’Toole, C.S.C., superior of Holy Cross College, Brookland, D. C., and Rev. John Murphy, C.S.C., of Moreau Seminary.
Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C., of Holy Cross Seminary, will assist the priests at the Mass, while Rev. Edward L. Heston, C.S.C., of Brookland, D. C., Rev. Leo Gorman, C.S.C., and Rev. Joseph Powers, C.S.C., will serve as masters-of-ceremonies for the services.
Very Rev. Albert F. Cousineau, C.S.C., superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, also will attend the ordination.
“If the other powers will not subscribe to the American approach, then the United States must make known in unequivocal language that we have descended into the European shambles for the last time. Twice within a generation we have fought for an ideal; twice we have placed ourselves in jeopardy; have spent our wealth like water; almost stripped ourselves of our natural resources, and left the flower of our manhood dead on foreign fields. Isn’t twice enough?1 Frankly, it hardly seems the part of ’wisdom to have other nations use the United States again and again for their own ends. This is the time for a real apostrophe to America, in the light of the years that lie ahead.”
Father O’Donnell closed his address by exhorting the class to hold fast to;the principles of their American heritage, to repudiate the lie that they were a part of “the lost generation,” and to.be mindful of their obligations to both God and their fellowmen.
The two men who will be ordained at Moncton, N.B., Canada, are Paul Joseph Kingston, C.S.C., New Castle, N.B., Canada, and Patrick H. Fogarty, C.S.C., Moncton, N.B., Canada.
Members of the Congregation who will be ordained Sunday in Sacred Heart Church are: Gregory J. Lombardo, Herve A. LeBlanc, Albert J. Heinzer, Bernard J. Furstoss, Raymond E. Finan, Louis L. Meyer, William Patrick Evans, Robert J. Waichulis, James J. Sheehan, Elmer V. Rupp, Stanley Parry, Thomas J. O’Donnell, Arthur W. Near, Robert William Moher, John P. Lucey, Paul Charles Bailey, Jerome M. Boyle, Robert Beh, Thomas F. Cady, Victor Dean, William T. Duffy, Clarence R. Durbin, and Augustine J. Peverada.
Commerce Forum Hears Tom Bergin on Congress The sixth and equally successful talk given this semester to the Forum, was delivered Wednesday evening by Thomas Bergin.
Graduating this month, Mr. Bergin, who hails from Watertown, N. Y., spoke on one of America’s foremost needs, that of the “Strengthening of Congress.” He emphasized many points which should be considered and acted upon in order to make Congress a “true instrument of the people.”
Knights Have Outing on
Shore of Hudson Lake
Braving a terrific gale that swept across the icy waters of Hudson Lake last Sunday, the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus staged their annual outing with a day loaded with fun and fellowship. It was the coldest June day for northern Indiana since World War I, but the Caseys’ spirits and frolics were not dampened in the least as they counteracted the chilly climate with a blazing fire and activities of invigorating warmth and liveliness.
The council began the day with the celebration of holy Mass and the reception of Holy Communion in the Walsh Hall chapel with the Rev. Francis Good-all, C.S.C., chaplain for the group, offering the Holy Sacrifice and preaching the sermon. After breakfast the Knights defied the miserable weather and proceeded to the South Shore and the 17-mile-dis-tant Hudson Lake. With the arrival of Financial Secretary Ernie Howard and his Nash loaded with the eats and stuff, the affair moved with plenty of momentum toward the climactic catching of the inevitable last train back.
The unpleasant atmospheric conditions and some unfavorable scholastic conditions deterred some members from attending the picnic, but the affair was considerably well attended and the picnickers stood up to the proceedings of the day in fine style, the weather and other conditions notwithstanding.
Kuenzli Receives Legion
Citation of Recognition
Announcement was made last week by the American Legion, Department of Illinois, of the awarding of a citation of recognition to Alfred Kuenzli, advertising manager of the Scholastic. The award was made June 1 in Chicago, at a meeting of American Legion Post No. 745, and was presented to Mr. Kuenzli in recognition of his work regarding the returning servicemen, particularly the publication recently of his article in Collier’s.
The award stated, in part, “In recognition of unselfish Distinguished Service to, and loyal cooperation with, The American Legion in the promotion of a program for the betterment of the Community, State, and Nation this Citation of Recognition is hereby awarded.”
Mr. Keunzli has distinguished himself since coming to Notre Dame, following his discharge from the Marine Corps, especially in voicing the feelings and position of ex-servicemen now studying at the University.
7
WE PEER INTO THE FUTURE
Ninth Middie Class to Graduate Tomorrow
“Old N.D. has changed a lot since I finished here in 1912,” said an alumnus the other day. Yes! Thirty-three years have brought many changes, but what will be the reaction of the present generation of N.D. students on returning to the campus in the future.
* * *
On a clear autumn evening in 1960 a helicopter drops into the circle, and out steps a group of jovial old grads, looking forward eagerly to the football game next day. After passing Alumni, Dillon and the Dining hall they enter the Union building, marveling at the numerous shops they see about them on the way up to their rooms.
After dinner the group decides to look around their Alma Mater. “That building down there looks something like the Rockne, doesn’t it?”
“Oh, that! that’s the Arts building. Let’s have a look at it. I remember when I used to practice the piano in old Music hall; I wonder if that fellow in the Arts building is having as tough a time as I had.”
The building is almost deserted at this hour, except for a few students working in the sculpture room, or practicing speech in another section of the Fine Arts edifice. Janitors hustle about in the spacious auditorium, which had seated the entire student body only a few hours before.
In the distance the band strikes up, reminding all of the pep-rally to be held in the new gym. What the Rockne is to intramural athletics, this newest athletic structure is to varsity events. On a newly built basketball floor the sport of Hoosierdom goes on as in other days. The spirit is the same; only the surroundings are different.
Creighton Miller, All-American captain from the national championship team of ’43, is guest speaker. Student cheers bring back memories of former days, and happily the old grads return to the Union for a line or two of bowling and a bed-time snack.
Next morning Mass is celebrated in the World War II Memorial Chapel. One of the group who had majored in chemistry visited Chemistry hall and found the department keeping abreast of latest developments in chemical research. While there, he runs into one of his classmates now doing graduate work. And, after examining the ultra-modern equipment, both friends return to the Graduate hall. Here graduate students
live with men of their own age, while carrying on their specialized work.
Before lunch a few of the men decide to renew an old acquaintanceship with Mr. Burns, head librarian; but, to their amazement, they discover the old. library now containing the University art collection. Informed by an attendant of the change that has taken place, they wander off in the direction of the newly completed library.
A happy crowd celebrated the victory with a dance in the Union building, as a successful season ends in a flourish of gaiety.
“We’ve seen great expansion in our few days here,” said one of the grads as he was leaving early Sunday morning. “I wouldn’t call it expansion,” said another; “but rather an internal improvement or a perfection of a citadel of Christian culture.”
V-12 Camera Club Maintains Active Program
The Camera club held its second outing of the semester at Tower Hill near St. Joseph, Mich. Members and their guests spent the entire Sunday taking pictures of each other and the scenery around Lake Michigan, and finished with a picnic in the Dunes.
After the outing a photography contest was held to determine the best of all pictures taken on the trip. The contest was divided into three divisions: advanced amateur, amateur, and rank • amateur. Fifty pictures were entered and judged by Father Keller, moderator
Camera Club Members and Their Favorite Models
The ninth class of the U. S. Naval Reserve Midshipman School will receive their commissions tomorrow morning, Saturday, June 9, at 11:00 in the Navy Drill Hall. Lt. George Petritz, who recently escaped from a Japanese prison ship and returned to this country will address the class. Lt. Petritz is the younger brother of Joe Petritz, now also a naval officer and formerly director of University publicity.
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, will deliver the convocation at the assembly which will see approximately 245 men receive their commissions as ensigns in the naval reserve. Captain J. Richard Barry, USN, will deliver a farewell address to the men who for their four months of training have been under his command. The midshipmen glee club and band will also take part in the program.
of the club, and Commander Olney, executive officer of the V-12 unit.
In the advanced amateur class, a portrait submitted by Art Wagner won first prize while Don White, president of the club, won second prize, and Don Cullison, the third prize. J. J. Seger won first prize in the amateur division, while Bill Riley won in the rank amateur class.
Plans are being made for other outings during the summer months since the club now has the active membership to insure the success of the many activities possible.
HOW WRONG THEY WERE
Qteeti Hanne/i
... By Harry Walters and John Power
SIGNS OF THE TIMES
That famous Spanish professor with the Boston accent, Mr. Phillip H. Riley, has issued his equally famous warning to delinquent members of his class once again: “Of course, if you fail to pass the course, of course, you will receive no credit for the course, of course, and you will have to repeat the course, of course, until you pass the course—of course.”
WE CAN TAKE IT
News from the O.D.T. informs us that only residents of Louisville will be permitted to see the Kentucky Derby. Being a pair of dope sheet men from way back, we certainly hate to miss the derby—but we’ve already missed 20 of them—one more won’t hurt.
SOMETHING FOR THE HIT PARADE
“Mr. Linehan, please return the towel which Miss Mary Lou O’Connor purloined during her recent stay. Bob Hope wants to take a bath!”
❖ •
SONNET ON JUNE 18
’Twas the day of the finals,
Pens were full of . ink,
But not a prof would leave the room So that a guy could think.
❖
NEWS ITEM
Father Downey, Yonkers gift to the Notre Dame caf, reports that Bob Schissler, former man-about-Sweeneys, has joined the Anti-Saloon League in Bowling Green, Ohio. Bob writes that the deciding factor in his membership was his experience in Sorin.
We were thumbing through the files of the Scholastic the other day and came upon the following advertisement in the issue of April 29, 1938—page 23.
“Summer—the chance of a lifetime to go to Europe.
Once graduated from college, it may be years before you have the time or as good an opportunity to see Europe.
Hamburg American Line North German Lloyd.”
Just proves the point—you can never believe what you read in an advertisement.
MOIDER DE BUMS
For the latest in entertainment and enjoyment, be sure to see the Faculty play the Students on Field Day. There is some rumor that the Board of Discipline will monopolize the infield. - Ail wrenches, lead pipes, and poisoned darts, must be checked in and left at the gate. Admission will be by “campussed cards.” Balls and chains will be provided for the spectators in fear that some may be from Brooklyn.
Have you heard the theme song of the current grads? It’s a touching little melody entitled “Mom, you’ve worked hard in the glue factory, slaved the best years of youi- life so that I could get an education and now Mom, I’ve graduated. I can get a job and so Mom, from now on you won’t have to work for me—you can go out and work for yourself. “Blues.”
ONE WAY TO LOOK AT IT
There is a lad in the Commerce school who has been around Sorin city for quite a while. One of his proudest boasts is that he’s a “sixth semester sophomore.” When asked why he has continued to stick it out, he replied, “It’s my patriotic duty—the tuition fees keep the money in circulation, my mother uses my ration book at home, and the rest of the family wouldn’t have red points if I were to return.”
❖
TELEPHONE CONVERSATION
From: the Oliver Hotel
To: Frank Linehan	'
Date: the morning after the Bob Hope show.
"BecvAa.
Kent Graduates and Hangs Out the Flag

Kelly end Mile Relay Team Win at C.C.C.
Great Lake’s favored trackmen kept the dope bucket in an upright position last Saturday when they captured top honors in the Central Collegiate Conference meet. The Bluejackets, performing on their home grounds at the naval training center, racked up 48 points, eighteen more than second place Purdue university, to the complete delight of a capacity crowd of 5,000 sailors.
The Navy squad notched only two firsts, both by Les Eisenhart, former Ohio State distance star, but made up for this deficiency in the remaining four spots. Eisenhart shared double-victory laurels with frosh Lee Hofacre of Drake and Wright Field’s one-man team, Dwight Eddleman, former University of Illinois star. Marquette finished third in the 15-team field with 27 points, four points ahead of Western Michigan, with Notre Dame in fifth place with 20 points. Illinois, the defending champ, didn’t compete.
For Coach Handy’s boys, Joe Kelly successfully defended his title in the
Winners oi the mile-relay race at the Central Collegiates last Saturday. Left to right: Jones, Schinner, Provost and Murphy
n < 11 / y?
discus with a toss of 135 feet, 4 inches, and the crack Irish quartet of Provost, Murphy, Schirmer, and Jones put another notch in their victory belt when they outdistanced the field in the mile relay to account for Notre Dame’s second first place. Kelly also placed fourth in the shot put, and the Irish 440-yd. relay team ranked fifth. Other winners for the Irish were Bill O’Neil, third in the 120-yd. high hurdles; Fred Jones, fourth in the 440-yd. run; and Ray Struble, who tied for third in the pole vault.—John C. Thomas
Golf Team Beats Baer Field, 23 to 4
The Notre Dame golf team in next to the last match of the 1945 season defeated Baer Field of Fort Wayne last Saturday, 23 to 4, at the field’s course. It was a pleasant day for Father Hol-derith and his boys, as the Irish shot some of the best golf of the season in spite of a strong, chilling wind, and the team was treated excellently by Capt. Maurice Weinburger, head athletic director, and his team.
Jim Clynes and Art Mosher shot 76s,
and Tom Kennedy, 77, which is good golf, considering the weather and the fact that the boys had never played the course before. Lt. Jack Mahaffey, of the Notre Dame Midshipman School, played on the Irish squad and handed in a 73 for the day’s low, adding 6 more points to N.D.’s total.
A good number of spectators turned out to watch the boys play, and saw some fine shooting. Jim Clynes shot the first nine in par, and in doing so got three birdies. Lt. Mahaffey shot the back nine in par to give Notre Dame low score on each nine.
For the losers Sgt. James R. Brown, former Georgia Amateur champion, playing in the number one position, turned in a 76.
The match was played on the Brookwood C. C., just outside of Fort Wayne; pai- for the course is 36-36—72.
The Summaries:
Kennedy 39-38—77 and Mosher 37-39—76 (ND) defeated Brown 39-37-76 and Jurkewitz 43-39—82 (BF) 3% to 214- Best Ball, N.D. 2%, B.F. %.
Mahaffey 37-36—73 and Scully 42-38—80 (ND) defeated Harris 42-41—83 and Coleman 42-41—83 (BF) 5% to %. Best Ball, N.D. 3, B.F. 0.
Clynes 36-40—76 and Morrow 42-39—81 (ND) defeated Gross 43-43—86 and Osgood 42-38—80. 514 to 14- Best Ball, N.D. 3, B.F. 0.
Total: N.D., Individual points, 1514' Best Balls 7%—23. B.F., Individual points, 314. Best Balls 14—4.
Tennis Team Enters
N.C.A.A. Meet June 25
With eight matches won and only one loss on his team’s record, Tennis Coach Walter Langford will lead his charges into the N.C.A.A. tennis matches to be held at Evanston, Ill., June 25 through June 30, prepared to defend their cochampionship earned last year. Coach Langford appeared none too optimistic about the affair, though the Texas doubles team, which last year beat Notre Dame in the semi-finals is not returning. This fact leads many observers to believe that Notre Dame’s number one doubles team, Charles Samson and Bill Tully, may be able to win.
However, the William and Mary University team of Bartzer and Mackin should be seeded first or second in the doubles, and Notre Dame may have to meet this pair in the finals.
In the singles, the favorite is, of course, returning champion, Pancho Segura of Miami (Fla.) University, who last year defeated Samson in the finals.
This means that Notre Dame has a good chance to pick up points three ways, Samson in singles, Samson and Tully in doubles, and one of Notre Dame’s other men in singles. Coach Langford is taking with him a four man team, Jim Griffin and George Ratterman, included.
10
Klinemen Record Shows Good 1945 Season;
Five Games Remain for Irish Nine this Summer
BY PAUL WEYRAUCH
With five games remaining to be played, including today’s game with Northwestern, the 1945 Notre Dame baseball team has a record of eight wins, six losses, and one tie. The Great Lakes game is not included in this tabulation. The season has been one of ups and downs for Jake Kline’s boys with a slight edge for the ups.
The season opened on April 21 as Notre Dame downed Camp Atterbury, 11 to 6, and on the following day bested Wakeman Hospital, 6 to 4. Michigan came to Cartier Field the following week-end and returned to Ann Arbor with two victories, 6 to 1 and 12 to 4. Jack Barrett, veteran hurler, shut out Northwestern, 4 to 0, after which the Irish went on a scoring binge to trounce Western Michigan, 26 to 10, in a game marred by a steady drizzle of rain. The two teams tied at 2 all in the second game of that series. Bunker Hill’s veteran ball club was upset on May 6, 7 to 2, with Jack Stewart pitching masterful ball. Michigan took anothei' triumph, and Western Michigan gained some revenge before Barrett came to the rescue in the second game of the Western series to score a 3 to 0 shutout. Bunker Hill also took sweet revenge on their own field, May 20, with a convincing 19 to 4 victory. Notre Dame came back in their own against Ohio State to sweep a two-game series. Iowa Pre-Flight, having never lost to Notre Dame in baseball, continued their record with a 5 to 4 victory on June 2.
Two games with Purdue, last place team in the Western Conference, and return matches -with Iowa Pre-Flight and Great Lakes will complete the schedule. At this point it looks as though Notre Dame should play at least .500 ball in these games and possibly better if the pitching and hitting holds up.
Regardless of the final outcome of the games, Jake Kline has done a fine job this year- with a green ball club. When the season started he had only captain Frank Gilhooley and pitcher Jack Barrett back from last year’s club. With the new material on hand, Coach Kline built a fast ball club that has played good ball all season, win or lose. Jim McGurk, George Schneider, Billy Hassett, and Tom Martin have formed a better than average infield that has been sparkling on more than one occasion. Neil Kelly, Frank Gilhooley, and Jack Barrett, when
he wasn’t pitching, have formed a hard hitting outfield. Bill Tracy has done most of the catching, showing improvement with each game. Besides becoming a reliable receiver, Tracy has become a hitting power on the club. Leo Murphy and Emil Koluch have aided Tracy in
Neil Kelley, hitting above .300
the catching department. George Ratter^ man was a late season arrival but showed his ability as a fielder and hitter in the late season games.
Excluding the Great Lakes games, the
top five men in team batting are as fol-
lows :
Tracy ------------------
Hassett ________________
Barrett ---------------- Gilhooley -------------- Kelly ------------------
G	AB	H	Avg.
10	29	10	.345
14	61	21	.344
12	38	13	.342
14	57	18	.316
14	52	16	.308
The season’s record to date:
Notre Notre Notre Notre Notre Notre Notre Notre Notre Notre Notre Notre
Dame Dame Dame Dame Dame Dame Dame Dame Dame Dame Dame Dame
11, Camp Attebury 6
6, Wakeman Hospital 4
1, Michigan 6
4, Michigan 12
4, Northwestern 0
26. Western Michigan 10
2,	Western Michigan 2 (tie)
7,	Bunker Hill N. A. S. 2
3,	Michigan 12
6, Western Michigan 13
3,	Western Michigan 0
4,	Bunker Hill N. A. S. 19
Notre Dame 3, Ohio State 1
Notre Dame 11, Ohio State 8
Notre Dame 4, Iowa Pre-Flight 5
Notre Dame - Great Lakes — June 6
Notre Dame - Northwestern — June 8
Notre Dame - Purdue — June 9
Notre Dame - Iowa Pre-Flight — June 10
Notre Dame - Purdue — June 16
Notre Dame - Great Lakes — June 17
Track Season Closes;
List Monogram Winners
With the track season completed except for the N.C.A.A. meet to be held at Marquette tomorrow, a summary of the season’s activities may now be attempted. It can truthfully be stated that Coach “Doc” Handy, with only a handful of lettermen returning from last year’s team and considerably hampered by the Indiana weather, made the most out of the material and conditions at hand.
In listing their triumphs and reversals during both the indoor and outdoor schedules, we find that the Irish finished on top in three of their four dual encounters, losing only to Illinois’ Big 9 conference champs. They ended up in second place in both of their triangular meets, losing to the strong Iowa Seahawk squad each time.
The Handymen won the Indiana state meet for the fourth year in a row for, what might be called, their outstanding triumph of the season. They notched a second in the Michigan relays and never placed lower than fifth in either of the two Central Collegiate conference meets or the Purdue and Drake relays. In the Chicago relays, Notre Dame’s stellar foursome topped the field in their heat of the mile relay and were acclaimed as one of the best mile quartets in the country over the entire season.
Bill O’Neil, star hurdler; Bill Tully, ace distance runner; and Joe Kelly, Irish strong man, were the top pointgetters for the Blue and Gold. Coach Handy announced the following men as track monogram winners: Frazier Thompson, Bill Tully, Dave Murphy, Fred Jones, Steve Provost, Bill O’Neil, Bob Schirmer, Bill Walsh, Frank En-triken, Joe Kelly, Vince Scott, Frank McCarthy, Ray Struble, Bob Vosburg, Dick Prosche, Rolando Duarte, and George Sullivan.—John C. Thomas.
SPORTS SCHEDULE FOR THE WEEK-END
Golf: Saturday, Baer Field at Notre Dame
Baseball: Friday, Northwestern at Notre Dame; Saturday, Purdue at Lafayette; Sunday, Iowa Pre-Flight at Notre Dame
Field Day: Saturday and Sunday •• - (sponsored by Student Council)
11
Annual Field Day Tomorrow and Sunday
Student Council Sponsors Second Annual Display of Undergraduate Athletic Talent.
Tomorrow afternoon at 1:30 the second annual Student Council Field Day will get under way with a number of softball games among the various hall teams played simultaneously on Cartier Field and following these games, the surprise event of the day will begin when a faculty team meets an all-star student team. Jack Allen and Joe Brady, working with the hall representatives, have arranged to have an outstanding faculty team on the field, although nothing of its potential will be known until play has begun. Facing the faculty team will be a student aggregation led by Jim Donovan, Sorin hall representative to the council.
At the conclusion of the faculty-student game, the other track and field events will get under way with a threelegged race, followed in order and in as rapid succession as possible by a football throw and running broadjump, 60-yard dash, standing broad jump and baseball throw, barrel boxing, sack race, baseball fungo, four-man relay — 240 yards, tug of war — 25 man-teams, bicycle race, and the PHOMP race.
Sunday afternoon, at approximately 4.00, following the Notre Dame-Iowa Seahawk baseball game in Cartier Field, the swimming events will be held in St. Joseph’s lake in the following order: dry carry, soccer dribble, and a relay. Other events may be added to this card after the Scholastic goes to press.
Interest in the faculty-student softball game is high, especially with the popularity of the faculty men who have been signed to appear for the faculty team. The most recent addition to the roster is Bev. William Craddick, C.S.C., prefect of religion, who will join with such campus notables as Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., Rev. Charles McCarra-gher, C.S.C., and Rev. Tom Brennan. C.S.C.
Lay members of the team will include two deans, Dean Clarence E. Manion of the law school, and Dean Lawrence H. Baldinger of the college of science. Other colleges are represented as well with such outstanding individuals as Dr. J. P. Mullally of the department of philosophy, Prof. Wesley C. Bender, head of the business administration department of the commerce college. Dr. John D. Mizelle, professor of biology and mod
erator of the active biology club; Mr. Don J. Plunkett, professor of biology; and Mr. Robert F. Ervin, professor of biology, will represent the college of science in addition to Dean Baldinger.
A surprise addition to the faculty team as the Scholastic was going to press was Rev. Gerald F. McMahon, C.S.C., rector of Cavanaugh Hall. Father McMahon’s presence on the squad will add interest, if not talent, to the occasion, but the student body will know more about that tomorrow afternoon.
Sunday night at 7:30, awards will be made in the auditorium of the Engineering building with Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, presenting the plaque to the team garnering the largest total of points through the two-day program. Individual prizes will also be awarded ot the men winning events.
La Raza Club Meets
Chicago Soccer Team
The Notre Dame La Raza Club soccer team will meet the Schwabens, outstanding Chicago soccer team, on the soccer field behind the tennis courts south of the engineering building, next Sunday, at 1:30. The game will be the first opportunity in many years for students of the University to witness a first class soccer game on the campus.
Although soccer has not reached the large spectator-drawing scale as other sports, have, it offers the crowd many thrills, and has found great favor in many other nations, particularly in Europe. The team which will oppose the La Raza aggregation was last year the undefeated and untied champions of the International Major Reserve Division, and are this year again leading the league with four wins and one tie. The team boasts a number of top-notch players, many of whom formerly played professionally in Europe.
Facing the Schawbens will be the La Raza club team, captained by Larry Romagosa, who plays for the Schwabens on Sundays, and Cike. Vila and Bruno Opela will also play for the La Raza. The last two mentioned are well known in Chicago soccer circles for their amazing scoring ability.
The game Sunday is possible with the cooperation and help of Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., prefect of discipline, and
Mr. James Scannell and Mr. Maxwell of the Physical department.
The starting line-up for the game will be:
Goal keeper, Pat Mazza; Left fullback, Mike Vila: Right fullback, Jim Donovan; Left halfback. Frank Pinto: Center halfback, Larry Romagosa (c) ; Right halfback, Alfredo Smith; Left wing, Nrpoleon Duar.e: Inside left, Ramiro Samaniego; Center forward, Bruno Opella; Inside right, Rolando Duarte; Right wing, Alfredo Espinosa.
Substitutes: Mike Manzo, Lou Mangano, Carlos Colon. Arturo Castro.
Bill O'Neil Elected 1946 Track Captain
Track coach “Doc” Handy announced this week that hurdler Bill O’Neil, entering his third season of track competition next year, has been chosen by his teammates to captain the squad next year. Bill is one of the most popular men on the track squad and has been an important point getter for the past two seasons, and this year receives his second track monogram.
O’Neil runs the 120 and 220 yard low and high hurdles, and placed third in the 120 yard low hurdles at the Central Collegiate Conference held last week at Great Lakes where the Irish team placed fifth.
Bill is a Commerce student and hails from Snoqualmie Falls, Wash. He has been a consistent point winner for the team in his two years of competition.
Irish Linksmen Close
Season on Saturday
Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., the Notre Dame golf coach, urges Irish golf fans to come out Saturday afternoon to watch his team close the 1945 season against Baer Field. Last week Notre Dame journeyed down to Fort Wayne to defeat the Field team, and were treated royally. This week Father Holderith wants to repay the courtesy. At Fort Wayne quite a few fans turned out to see the match, and it is hoped a few will turn out here tomorrow.
Though Notre Dame won handily last Saturday, 23 to 4, the Baer Field team is no pushover, and has two champions playing on their squad. One, Sgt. James R. Brown, Georgia Amateur champion, who once turned in a 62 in tournament play, the other, Master Sgt. Edward Jurkewitz, holds numerous honors in Indiana invitational tournament play.
Father Holderith expects to have the match going around noon, as the soldiers have to be back at their posts .by Saturday .evening.—Robert J. Shaw
12
Barrett Pitches 1-0 Win Over Great Lakes
Holding a highly touted 'Great Lakes nine to five hits, Jack Barrett and the Irish baseball team won from the sailors by a score of 1 to 0. The loss was the season’s third for the Lakes team.
Jack Barrett
The Notre Dame lone counter came in the sixth inning when Neil Kelley got on base on Upton’s error, was sacrificed to second on Tom Martin’s bunt, and scored when Jim McGurk, Irish first-sacker, lined a hit down the left field line.
Notre Dame ......... 000	001 00 0—1 8 2
Great Lakes    000 000 00 0—0 5 3
Barrett and Tracey; Galehouse and Cooper.
Langfordmen Close Schedule Beating Purdue
The Notre Dame tennis team closed another successful season Saturday against Purdue University, defeating them 5 to 3 in a hard fought battle. The match was undecided all the way until Dick Fountain won the number six singles, 8-6, 6-4. The turning point for the Irish was Jim Griffin’s comeback win over Al Matisse in the toughest struggle of the day. Griffin was one set down, and was playing .match point for the fourth time, when a reversal of play gave him the match, 5-7, 7-5, 6-1.
Although hampered by the absence of George Ratterman, the number four man, Coach Langford’s boys managed to win five out of the first seven points for the win. Bill Tully was the only Notre Dame man who won easily, 6-2 and 6-1. Even Charles Samson, the number one man, though he won in straight sets, started out badly, and had to come
from behind to defeat Purdue’s star, Walter Lum.
The best exhibition of skill came in the number one doubles match where Bill Tully and Charles Samson defeated Lum and Bill Kalkofen, 6-0, 6-3.
The weather prevented the scheduled third doubles match from materializing.
Summaries:	.
Singles: Samson (ND) defeated Lum (P), 7-5. 6-4 ; Tully (ND) defeated Kalkofen (P). 6-2. 6-1 : Gi-iffin (ND) defeated Matisse (P), 5-7. 7-5. 6-1; Linn (P) defeated Martin (ND) 6-1. 7-5: Jaeckel (P) defeated Brown (ND). 6-1, 6-2: Fountain (ND) defeated Armendariz (P). 8-6. 6-4.
Doubles: Samson and Tully (ND) defeated Lum and Kalkofen (P). 6-0, 6-3: Matisse and Linn (P) defeated Grifnn and Martin (ND). 6-1. 7-5.
—Robert J. Shaw
Sorin Softballers Win Over St. Edward's Team Under the masterful pitching of southpaw John Rinella, the man who will receive the single law degree being conferred this semester, the solona from Sorin defeated the boys from St. Ed’s A.C., 8-6, in the interhall softball league last Wednesday afternoon.
Rinella was nearly knocked out of the box in the first inning, but with the help of a solidly hitting team, went into the seventh inning with the score tied 6-all. The deadlock was broken in that inning when Jimmy Donovan rapped an infield single with men on second and third, both of whom scored when the shortfielder overthrew the first baseman.
The Sorin team will now meet the top navy aggregation next week for a two-out-of-three series to decide the campus championship.
NTEPS
FRO/A THE
PESS BOX
By JIM REGAN
With six more games to be played, the baseball team has a record of eight wins against seven losses and one tie. The tennis team, which has completed its schedule except for the N.C.A.A. tournament, dropped but one match in nine encounters. The golf team finished on top in five matches while losing three. They still have one match to play. The track team competed in several meets with many other schools but had only three dual events. Of these, they won two.
Thus, at this writing, all Notre Dame teams have better than a .500 record. The over-all percentage of the spring teams is .657.
Iowa Preflight Wins Over Irish Nine. 5-4
Because of cold and rainy weather last weekend in Iowa City, the Notre Dame baseball team was able to play but a single contest with the Iowa Pre-Flight nine. The Irish fell before the service team, 5 to 4, after having come from behind to tie the count at 4-all in the fifth inning.
The Navy boys opened the scoring with three runs in their half of the third and added one marker in the fourth. Notre Dame tied the score with a four-run rally in the fifth but was unable to prevent the Pre-Flighters from tallying the winning run in the seventh. Billy Hassett banged out two hits off the offerings of Stan Stuka to lead the Irish attack. Summary:
Iowa Pre-Flight --0 0 3 1 0 0 1 0 x—5-9-0
Notre Dame  ......0 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 0—4-6-1
Batteries: Stewart and Tracey; Stuka and Franchuck.
N.C.A.A. Golf June 25;
Whiting Joins Irish Team
The Notre Dame golf team looms as one of the dark horses in the coming N.C.A.A. championship tournament to be held June 25. It is true the Irish are defending champions, but of last year’s championship squad, only two men are left on the team, Jim Clynes and Tom Kennedy.
However, Dick Whiting, a member of the golf team of 1942, is returning to the campus this week, and because of war-time regulations, will be eligible to play in the tourney. Whiting has recently been honorably discharged from the Army Air Corps after 35 missions in Europe, and has been resting up at the Santa Anna C. C. in California where he has been shooting sub-par golf. He has also been playing in the California Amateur Tournament, and has turned in some very good rounds.
Whiting made his last mission last New Year’s Eve, returning to the U. S. in January, where he was given a ten weeks leave. Shortly after returning to duty, he was released and immediately made an application to return to Notre Dame. He will be a Junior next semester.
Rev. George C. Holderith, C.S.C., coach for the past 12 seasons, made the official announceemnt this week, and added that his timely return brightened N.D.’s hopes to retain the coveted championship.
Father Holderith has not yet announced whom he will take with him to the tournament, but will probably take a five or six man squad. As many as want can enter, with the four low scores qualifying. At least four will be used by each team.
13
HUBA HUBA COMPANY B
On the way to chow each day, morning, noon and night, Company B must pass within a few feet of the billboard near Howard Hall. Last week an attracting poster was adorning its usually dull planks. The poster was centered by Joan Fontaine and was advertising the show at the U.S. Navy Drill Hall, “The Affairs of Susan.” -	-
The company commander saw it shortly before the company did, and knew that there was bound to be some twisting of necks, and low whispering and whistling, which would heavily distract from the military bearing of the company. To prevent this catastrophe, he commanded, “Eyes . . . right! Prepare to huba . . . bubal” The commands were snappily followed; and the alert company commander had accomplished in a military manner, what ordinarily would have been done in a very “un-G.I.” way.
SOME GET FULL VALUE FROM TYPHOID SHOTS
Some V-12 trainees insist on drinking at least a glassful a day of the tap water direct from the lake, in order to insure themselves of getting the full value of their typhoid shots.
❖
SUPERSTITIOUS?
You’ve heard of people with silly superstitions— well, here’s a new one: When Pete Hamil spills quant-lab cleaning solution on the front of his blues, he throws a few cc. over his left shoulder to ward off the very likely possibility of the fluid “eating” the front of his uniform to shreds. And just as an example of how useless, and sometimes even detrimental, superstitions really are — not only did the spilled acid eat the front to shreds, but that which he threw over his left shoulder for luck, ran down the back and ate that out too.
❖
THIS IS THE END
This June 8, 1945, issue of the NOTKE Dame Scholastic terminates S?va&6ies’ Log. Since this is a farewell, so long
14
and “bum voyage,” as the French say, it will probably become very serious, sad and touching as we near our last gasps. (I just thought that it would be a good idea to prepare you for what follows.)
We have had a lot of fun writing this column, and reading what was written about it. We really hate to give it up. All good things must come to an end, but what about this column? Of course, at times we had nothing at all to say— no jokes, no stories, no happenings peculiar to V-12’s—and at other times we didn’t feel at all like saying what we did have to say.
After 20 months on the campus, of the University of Notre Dame, we feel that we owe a lot to the many persons who helped us in so many different ways. We owe at least a really sincere thanks to the administrators, both navy and university, our patient professors and our athletic instructors; followed closely by the janitors and chow hall workers, (serious part)
Of course everyone complains about the chow, but really, fellows, the chow is O.K. (our smiling chief cook gave me a fin for this one). Of course, sometimes it might have been necessary to go through the line nine times to get something to eat, but that is a minor item not worth mentioning.
The liberty and pay are good (not enough of either, though). The city of South Bend is overflowing with beautiful girls (we’ll furnish no addresses or proof). St. Mary’s College is just across the road (closed for the summer). The work is easy (if you don’t care to stay). The weather is wonderful (one day out of each month).
With all these advantages, if you get to stay at Notre Dame and aren’t glad of it, you are just a lucky bum who doesn’t know when he is well off. Every time we persuade ourselves to face the reality that we really have to leave this place June 20, we have to take a few hours off to quietly cry in our beer, (sad part)
Well, this is IT. So long, fellows! Hope we meet again soon! (touching part)
Irish Thinlies Close
Season at N. C. A. A.
Notre Dame’s varsity track squad left today to compete in the National Collegiate Athletic Association meet to be held at Marquette tomorrow. This get-together marks the end of the 1945 season for the Irish tracksters and should prove to be one of the largest competitive tournaments ever to be held.
All Bix Six and Big Nine conference schools will take part en masse and the strong Naval Military Academy squad will make the trip from Annapolis in order to compete. The Middies will reign as favorites if they bring their full team.
Illinois’ defending champions will not attempt to defend their team title, as they are sending only four individual entries. Great Lakes and Iowa PreFlight will not be allowed to compete since they are not undergraduate schools.
The following seven boys will carry Notre Dame’s traditional Blue and Gold in the nationals. The events they will compete in are also listed:
220-yd. dash—Dave Murphy
440-yd. dash—Fred Jones, Steve Provost
Half mile and Mile run—Bill Tully
120-yd. high and 200-yd. low hurdles—Bill O’Neil
Shot put and discus—Joe Kelly
Pole vault—Ray Struble
Since there are no relay events in the N.C.A.A. meet, Coach “Doc” Handy’s outstanding mile relay quartet will not compete.—John C. Thomas
Weather Slows Inter-
Hall Softball Play
The inclemency of the weather has somewhat hindered the elaborate plans outlined by the Physical Education department for Interhall softball. The play has not progressed as far as had been expected, as this goes to press. However, the final game in the civilian division was to have been played Wednesday, with Sorin and St. Ed’s meeting as a result of their wins in the semifinal round Monday night.
The outstanding game of the semifinals was the St. Ed’s - Alumni encounter. Gene Long, hurling for St. Ed’s, fashioned a no-hit masterpiece while his mates were landing on Alumni’s Jim McConn for eight runs. The damage was really done in the first inning, when St. Ed’s pushed five runs across the platter. And Long took care of his end of the bargain.
Sorin earned the right to enter the finals by defeating Cavanaugh 15-5. Pat Mazza handled the mound chores for the Sorinites, and was never in the slightest trouble. “Duke” Ducato worked on the hill for the boys from Cav, but was treated rather rudely.

By JACK MILES
he may be justly proud—he was able to play in the Army-Notre Dame pigskin classic last year; and, although the score isn’t a very pleasant one to recall, the thrill is in no way lessened. Although football holds a high spot on his sports parade, it must be remembered that baseball is one of his many talents. With this in mind, then, it is easy to understand his ambition—to play ball with the
New York Yankees. He defends his contention that the Yanks are the greatest team in baseball with all the power at his command. Some may argue, but look at the records (and also the major league standings at the present time.)
So our advice to the followers of the Irish nine is: Watch Mr. LeBron and see if he isn’t a pretty handy man to have around.
Johnny LeBron—does that name sound familiar- to you? It should, for that gentleman has been doing some very fine portside hurling for Jake Kline’s diamond contingent of late, in addition to a bit of timely hitting.
When not traveling with the team, he resides in 431 Cavanaugh with his genial roommate, Elmer Morris Matthews. This particular room is usually pervaded by an air of study, as studying rates as John’s favorite pastime (or so he says).
To honorably discharged ex-servicemen
John Lebrou
The old left-hander was born approximately twenty-one years ago in Baltimore and attended school there, graduating from Calvert Hall. While at Calvert Hall, he won three letters apiece in basketball, baseball, and football. An injured knee prevented him from earning an additional letter in each sport. He entered Notre Dame in July of 1944 in the College of Arts and Letters. His major subject is as yet undetermined.
The 5 foot 9 inch, 170-pound sophomore considers as palatable perfection a sumptuous steak with all the well-known trimmings. “Star Dust” is unrivalled in the popular song category, .and he wouldn’t object too strenuously if the orchestra playing that song was the one directed by Glenn Miller.
Johnny’s sports thrill is one of which
HERE'S AN "HONORABLE DISCHARGE" BUTTON with our compliments
As a tribute to you who were prepared to give your all for your country, here is an Honorable Discharge button we’d like you to accept, without charge, of course.
Bring your discharge papers with you. (The buttons can only be given to ex-servicemen in person)
^GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR MEN!
15
Fr. Cavanaugh Delivers Loretto Graduation Talk
Woman’s main contribution to the peace and well-being of society must come from her queenly influence upon men and children in the home, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, told graduates of Loretto College, Denver, Colo., at commencement exercises, Wednesday afternoon June 6.
“Whatever success men may have in constructing machinery for keeping the -peace,” Father Cavanaugh stressed, “this I tell you: Men alone are not able to form the minds and hearts that must run the machinery. I don’t think a more peaceable world is going to come when more women are in business or in the professions or on the stage. I don’t think it will help much when a larger number of women vote, or when more women take part in parliaments and congresses and international peace conferences.”
Father Cavanaugh pointed out that the main contribution which the home can make to the greatness of the church and of the country must come from rearing up tomorrow’s leaders, great Christian men and women of character and culture, thoroughly grounded in the science and art of the total Christian life.
“True culture is not only modest and reticent,” declared Father Cavanaugh, “it is above all reverent. . . . True culture is a world spirit rather than a village spirit. It is cosmopolitan, sympathetic, broad-minded. It never judges the customs of other people as being inferior, simply because they are different.”
Used Clothes Wanted By N.D.'s Major Hinkle
Major Hinkle, the man who has popularized Notre Dame both among his men in the army in Italy and the people of that country, has again directed a request tp the Scholastic to help him in his Christian charity toward the people, particularly the children, of Italy. This time Major Hinkle’s request is for used clothing, and the Scholastic directs the
HOLD THAT HAIKLIHEI
HARPEP METHOD MEN'S SHOP
request to the students.
It has been suggested that when students leave at the end of the semester, any clothing they no longer have any use for, be taken to the Alumni Office from where it will be dispatched to Major Hinkle in Italy.
Glasses Correctly Fitted J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
Garry Elected President of Commerce Forum
Mike Garry, senior from Fairmont, Minn., was elected president of the Commerce Forum Wednesday night, and he will serve for the next semester. Garry, an outstanding member of the Forum since its reorganization in 1943, is expected to give the organization one of its most successful semesters in history.
Elected to work with Garry were Tom McCaughey of Chicago, vice-president; Faul Ragan of Indianapolis, publicity chairman; and John Castelli of Midland, Pa., program chairman.
Plans were made at the meeting for the banquet to be held Wednesday night at the Hoffmann hotel when Dean James E. McCarthy will address the group. Richard Sadowski will be toastmaster, and guests will include Professors Eells, Kent, and Bender, and the faculty moderator of the group, Prof. Edmund A. Smith. Tom Bergin is chairman of the banquet committee.
For Your
Notre Dame BOOKS for Notre Dame Men
Campus Centenary Publications
An abiding gilt with the flavor of the campus. Order today!
BOOKS
Reading Enjoyment
THE BEST FROM YANK
Yank Magazine's best in fact, fiction and picture from every battle-front and camp.
Brave Men Moral Conquest of Germany Mexico
American Guerilla in the Philippines The Father Brown Omnibus Pride's Way Commodore Hornblower The Upstart Poor Child Captain from Castile A Lion Is In the Streets The Wine of San Lorenzo Quit for the Next Border City
NOTRE DAME — 100 YEARS $4.00
COLLECTED POEMS OF CHARLES L. O'DONNELL. C.S.C. $2.50
The Set — $5.00
These books mailed in an attractive box. Direct orders to:
PUBLICATIONS OFFICE Notre Dame, Indiana
And a complete line of other popular novels, recent best sellers, fiction and non-fiction,
NERS
NEWS CENTER • CIGAR STORE
127 W. Washington St
"In the I. M. S. Building'
16
Frank Montana of Architecture Dept. Has Drawings Published in Architectural Forum
Appearing in the June edition of the Architectural Forum, published by Time, Inc., are renderings by Frank Montana, a member of the Notre Dame department of architecture. On a two-page spread in an article on a master plan for various developments in Detroit, three large plates laid out by Mr. Montana are given much prominence.
The main feature of the layout is a large aerial perspective of the proposed Civic Center being planned for postwar Detroit, 'ihis plate was originally 40 by 60 inches in size and was rendered in full color by Mr. Montana. Two large and detailed plans appear at the bottom
of the spread. Credit is given to Suren Pilafian, Detroit architect, for the plates because they were handled through his office when presented to the city plan commission. Pilafian and Montana are associates in the Civic Center project which is one of the three major plans in the overall master plan. The two other major projects presented in the Forum article are a cultural center and a housing layout.
Mr. Montana is still working and executing drawings for the Civic Center in association with Mr. Pilafian. The Center is located on the Detroit riverfront directly below the hub of the city’s streets and the heart of the nation’s greatest concentration of mass production. The huge layout of the Center entails the grouping of the various government administrative offices, a gigantic
When you’re down-town . . .
Books Stationery Greeting Cards Gifts
THE BOOK SHOP 130 N. Michigan
memorial hall, parking for the employees of the offices, a very large restaurant and the location of a traffic expressway.
At present Mr. Montana is studying the third scheme for the Civic Center. Criticisms of the first two—the second is the one appearing in the Forum this month—concerned the general site plan and present studies seek to solve the overall location problems. The position of the expressway—whether elevated or depressed, on the riverfront or between the buildings and the business area—has been the nub of the problem and the drawings Mr. Montana is now working on at present are evolving the solution.
Traditionally . ..
The place where Notre Dame men meet
for
Delicious Italian and American Food
REASONABLY PRICED, PERFECTLY PREPARED
You'll enjoy our prompt courteous service and the collegiate atmosphere. Plan to meet your friends here often.
PHONE 3-0678 for reservations
Specials for NAVY MEN at the Zero Deck Canteen
BLACK SILK SOCKS_____50c
WATCH STRAPS ________50c
COLLARS (pkg. of 10)_50c
CAP COVERS ________ ..50c
GREY GLOVES _____ ... $1.65
MONEY BELTS .......$1.00
TOBACCO	T-SHIRTS
PIPES	TIES
COKE	SHORTS
CANDY	SOAP
Zero Deck of the Dining Hall
17
FOR GOD AND COUNTRY
The total number of Notre Dame men who have died for their country in World War II has leaped to 239. The total missing in action has remained at 36, but those captured was reduced to 28.
Listed below are the latest reported World War II casualties:
★	Sgt. Robert L. Corum, ex. ’45, was overseas in England when he came down with rheumatic fever. He returned to the U.S. and died at Billings Hospital on March 23, 1945.	‘
★	Ensign John T. Battaile, ’44, was killed in action in the Pacific. He left overseas last October and was assigned to an aircraft carrier.
★	Lt. Edward L. Kinn, ex. ’46, was wounded in the Aachen drive in Germany. He was killed in action in that country on April 18, 1944. Lt. Kinn was awarded the Purple Heart Bronze Star and the Combat Infantry Badge. .
★	Cpl. John J. McGinnis, Jr., ex. ’44, was killed while fighting with the 24th Ranger Division. He recently received creditable mention for leading his men through a mine field to the aid of a battalion trapped by Japs.
★	Lt. George E. Murphy, ’43, USMCR, who was captain of the 1942 football team, died in action on Okinawa.
★	Pvt. Raymond E. Cronin, ex. ’47, died of wounds received at Bastogne.
★	S/Sgt. James C. McGoldrick, ex. ’43, who received an Air Medal with oak leaf clusters, was reported to have been killed in action over Schweinfurt, Germany, on Aug. 17, 1943.
★	Pvt. Morgan J. Quinn, ’44, was killed on April 30, 1945.
★	Joseph A. Sullivan, ’41, was killed when his parachute failed to open.
★	Major Joseph W. Whalen, ’27, became ill while serving with the Army in North Africa and died in this country at the Mercy Hospital, Denver.
★Joseph P. Cagney, ex. ’46, died of wounds received on Leyte.
Lt. Robert McBride, ex. ’43, was. liberated from a German prison camp. Robert was a former varsity football player and hopes to return to Notre Dame to finish his studies and his work on the gridiron.
Col. Charles D. Jones, ’32, was freed from a German prison camp.
Lt. Col. Francis S. Gabreski, ex. ’42, was reported as released by the South Bend Tribune.
1st Lt. Leo J. Fomenko, ’35, previously reported a prisoner of the German government was liberated.	’
Sgt. Edward F. Rorke, ex. ’39, previously reported missing in action, is now a prisoner of war of Japan.
Pfc. Francis L. Hanei, ex. ’45, has been a prisoner of war in Germany since Oct. 25, 1944.
Lt. (j.g.) Francis E. Metzgar; ’42, was reported as missing in action. He was on one of the destroyers sunk at Okinawa.
Capt. Martin S. McGinnis, ’39, who was a captain in the Armored Regiment of the U.S. Army, is missing in action.
Cpl. John C. Haffner, ’41, an aerial gunner, has been .missing in action since April 27, 1945, in Italy. He was awarded the Air Medal.
Pfc. Loren E. Bullock, ex. ’47, is missing in action since May 1, 1945, in Germany.
Lt. Philip E. Harbert, ex. ’43, was a fighter pilot. His plane was damaged and fell to the earth, exploding. An observing major who saw the explosion, is doubtful as to whether Lt. Harbert survived.
S/Sgt. James D. Brogger, ex. ’46, a nose gunner on a B-24, is missing in action since Feb. 7, 1945.
THESE NAMES ARE FAMOUS for QUALITY
ARROW
Shirts and Neckwear
VAN HEUSEN
Shirts and Sportswear
B. V. D.
Underwear and Sportswear
McGREGOR
Sportswear
SUPERBA — BOTANY — WEMBLEY Ties ARCH PRESERVER and BRITISH WALKER Footwear DUNLAY and PORTIS Hats WELBROOK Clothes
You'll find them all at
ROBERTSONS
211 S. MICHIGAN ST.
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS GENERAL DENTISTRY
X-RAYS AND CONSULTATION
DISEASES AND SURGERY OF MOUTH AND JAWS
TELEPHONE 4-S661
702 J. M. S. BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
503 SHERLAND BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	SOUTH BEND. INDIANA
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L. E. FISHER. M.D. M. J. THORNTON. M. D.
TELEPHONE 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE, D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE. D.D.S.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG. SOUTH BEND. IND.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 TOWER BUILDING	PHONE 3-2574
COOPER
Underwear
BRENTWOOD
Sweaters
MARLBORO
Sportswear
HICKOK
Belts and Braces
18
Fr. McAvoy to Speak
In South Bend Tuesday
At the Aquinas Book Store next Tuesday, June 12, the Rev. Thomas A. McAvoy, C.S.C., will address a gathering of the members of the book club attached to the store. The talk is entitled: “Notre Dame and Damien the Leper.”
Father McAvoy will base his talk on the letters in the University Library archives written to Father Hudson, C.S.C., by Brother Dutton, who was attached to the leper colony that made Father Damien famous.
Tom Vail — Band
Man Extraordinary
BY OCTAVE EMOND
Tom Vail, soon to be graduated from the College of Electrical Engineering, is the proud yet humble possessor of several distinguishing achievements in the field of Notre Dame music. He is the only civilian member of the Notre Dame Band today who has participated in the peace-time activities of that organization.
Tom joined the band in the autumn of 1942, his first year at the University; the late George Murphy captained the “Fighting Irish” that year, and although war clouds were heavy overhead, the regular peace-time schedul^was still in operation. The team had a good year, and the band was right there with them, in Chicago, in Cleveland, and in New York. Besides these appearances there were the four home games and several concerts on the campus and in South Bend.
Tom is the only member of the band who has actually participated in the functions which are now merely the fond hopes of the contemporaries. He is the first graduating senior in more than a year who can boast of eight semesters of active participation in the Notre Dame Band. His dependable work with
the sousaphone and the bass viol will be missed immeasurably, but the quality of his service as evidenced with the band should make him a valuable addition to any organization.
Last Wednesday evening Tom played his last concert with the Notre Dame Band, and thus culminated the longest service with that organization of any student now at the University. Although this last link with the memorable past has been dissolved, the bright hopes for the future already shine on a still smoldering horizon.
COLLEGE PARADE (Continued from page 2)
Bob mumbled something about important business, but Saturday afternoon found him standing before Blair House where the Truman’s are living. He assured the two secret service men that it was “OK”—he was “a friend of Mary Margaret's.” He gained entrance into the hallway where he told the butler that he’d like to see Miss Truman. Just then a voice came from the library, “I’ll see him, Jim.” Undaunted, (he couldn’t be any other way) Bob appeared before the president.
In a little while, Bob emerged from Blair House after the president had explained to him that Mary Margaret was in Virginia at a week-end party. It has not yet been learned whether Bob has become a special envoy to the president or has been convicted of evading the FBI.
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
Appropriate GIFTS tor GRADUATION June 22
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
• Greeting Cards
• Artists’ Supplies
• Picture Framing
I.	W. Lower Co
DECORATORS 128 North Michigan Street
19
Copyright 1945, Liggett & Mtebs Tobacco Co.