ill 127
cholastic
Tvisfllcaol |||
February 18, 1944
v
Vol. 80, No. 13
IN THIS ISSUE:
•	To Confer Ninety-Seven Degrees at Convocation
•	Review of Semester Highlights
•	Professor F. N. M. Brown Returns from China
•	Condon New "Scholastic" Editor
•	Tracksters Meet Michigan Tomorrow
•	V-l 2 Executive Committee, Producer of Social Affairs
Three Graduates. Thos. Shellworth. Francis Carver, and Raoul de Manbey, leave Notre Dame to serve “a nation at war."
—Photo by Brogan
2
4
THE MODERN GILBERT’S
HICKEY-FREEMAN
NAVY OFFICERS’ UNIFORMS
$60
and up
SMARTNESS is natural to a naval officer. His clothes are as much a part of it as his thoughts and actions. There’s nothing finer than Hickey-Freeman civilian clothes . . . there’s nothing finer than Hickey-Freeman Navy Officers’ uniforms, either . . . the same great hand needling and the same famous customizing skill go into both.
The Dobbs
Sea-Master
DOBBS Naval Officer’s Cap—100% lighter to wear— 100% easier to change! Dobbs quality, styling and workmanship, of course.
THE MODERN
GILBERT'S
813 - 817 S. Michigan Street
SOUTH BEND’S LARGEST STORE FOR MEW!
3
^he cNotre ^ame Scholastic
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1S67
gxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxg
§	College Parade	B
M	BY RICHARD MURPHY	H
*yyxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx^
THE STAFF
F. J. Pequigney.
Ralph Abell......
____Editor-in-chief Associate Editor
Editorial Staff
Robert O'Toole...________________________Managing Editor
Harold Berliner and John McKeon---Asst. Managing Editors Bill Waddington ------------------_Splinters
Lieut. S. L. Beatty.......................  Observations
Jim Casey and Buzz Hassett___________—.The Green Banner
Dick Murphy________________________________College Parade
Al Lesmez______:_____________________Man About Campus
News Staff
Frank Keenan_________________________-------News Editor
Al Lesmez__.'............................. Campus	Editor
Edward Madden________________________Administration Editor
John Keleher	Ed Mikkelson	Joe Plante
J. D. Usina	James McCarthy	Bill Thompson
Steve Loyacano	H. G. Gilligan	Mike Canair
Paul Smith
Features
Al Broten_______________________________________—Editor
Al Bisbee	Palmer Amundsen H. F. Ziegler
James Paris	Leonard Hogan	Sam Miller
Art Wagner Harry Tanner . Charles Veenstra .
Harold M. Nelson
Sports Staff
Bill Carey______________________________________Editor
James H. Howard Jim Fennelly	Jack Houghteling
Joe Murnane	Paul Brennan	David Scheider
John Power Jim Regan . Joe Fahey
Staff Photographers
Al Shaefer Charles Renaud Joe Haller
Reverend Charles M. Carey, C.S.C._______..Faculty Advisor-
Member of Catholic School Dress Association, Associated Collegiate Press, Distributor of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.; 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago—Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published forty times during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address all manuscript to the Editor, 305 Sorin Hall or 121' Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana.
4
HOW TRUE
Exams are fast approaching.
Do you study every night to one o’clock?
Do you go out on week-ends ?
Are you all worn out?
Well, you can’t expect to burn the candle at both ends and not make a double drip of yourself.
—The Web
THE CRITICAL PROBLEM —WHAT
TO DO WITH THAT DIPLOMA
The question of what to do with diplomas is the most critical problem which has arisen since that of disposing of used razor blades. The problem has become more acute since business leaders banded together to condemn the diploma, as being slightly less than worthless. Many ingenious suggestions have been offered as solutions to the question. The most practical of them all, if you ask us, is the one which would have the graduate turn the diploma over, paint “Unemployed” on it, and get a head start on the other boys who will also sell apples for the next few months or longer.
TIMES-ARE-TOUGH-EVERYWHERE DEPT.
The following classified ad appeared in the DePaulia, student publication of DePaul University in Chicago. We received it via the De Pauw.
“WANTED: Eligible DePaul man with $1.00, and carefree, and a knowledge of dancing, to escort DePaul coed (charming, of course, as all DePaul women are) to the Wrangler Dance. Affords opportunity to the future V-12 or ASTP lad to become experienced in military tactics.”

WHAT A MAN III
The Indiana Daily Student tells us that down at the University they have quite a specimen on hand. He’s a student who in his two and one-fourth years at the university has never missed or cut a class, not even when he had a broken leg. The reason for his phenomenal record lies in this statement: “Well, I figure I’m paying $4 for an hour class, and I might as well take advantage of it.”
Now that’s what we call putting* a real value on education !	(Continued on page 29)
umtt
Someone told Murphy to use humor this week.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3. 1917. Authorized June 25, 1918.
VOL. 80
FEBRUARY 18, 1944
NO. 13
FR. O’DONNELL TO CONFER 97 DEGREES AT CONVOCATION: FR. BURKE TO SPEAK
BY FRANK KEENAN
Departing from the traditional ceremony and formality which has ordinarily been associated with Notre Dame graduations, the University next Friday will inaugurate the first of what is hoped to be a limited number of informal, wartime convocations. Approximately 90 seniors will receive bachelor degrees at Washington Hall from Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, president of the University, minus, however, class day exercises, baccalaureate services, and caps and gowns. The ceremonies are the first to be held at Notre Dame since the commencement last October, which was the 100th commencement and the last formal graduation for the duration of the war.
Besides the 90 graduates who will receive bachelor degrees, seven graduate students will be the recipients of higher honors. Eugene Klier will receive a doctor’s degree in metallurgy, while the same degree in physics will be conferred on Brother Adalbert, C.S.C. Five master’s degrees also will be awarded at the convocation, three in science, and two in arts.
According to an announcement by Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of
studies, the ceremonies will not only be informal but also quite brief. The evening’s program will be opened with musical selections by the Notre Dame Symphony orchestra. Following this, Father O’Donnell will award two Doctor’s degrees, five Master’s degrees, and 90 Bachelor degrees. Upon conclusion of the conferring of degrees, the Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., Ph.D., professor of religion at the University, will deliver the convocation address. Closing of the convocation will follow the rendition of orchestral selections by the Notre Dame Symphony.
Due to the fact that so few men will receive degrees it has been decided that caps and gowns will not be worn by the graduates. The informality will be heightened by the fact that official formal invitations will not be issued for the ceremony. However, graduates will be allowed to invite personally as many guests as they choose.
Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., Ph.D., who will deliver the convocation address, is a professor of religion at the University. Father Burke, who celebrated his silver jubilee in the Congregation of
Holy Cross in 1934, has been prominent in the University Theatre and campus radio activities during recent years. He was editor of The Ave Maria, national Catholic weekly magazine published at Notre Dame, from 1928-34, at which time he was succeeded by Rev. Patrick Carroll, C.S.C., who is currently editor of the magazine. After graduating from Notre Dame in 1906, Father Burke received graduate degrees from the Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C., and taught in Holy Cross College in Washington from 1906-14. He served as president of Portland University, then known as Columbia University, from 1919-25, and served as a professor at the same institution until 1928, at which time he came to Notre Dame.
Seamen Apply for Transfer _ To NROTC Program
By John Knutson
During the past week the best qualified seamen of the V-12 program in colleges throughout the country were given opportunities to apply for transfers to the Naval ROTC. These men will fill the gaps created by graduation.
The applicants will take screening tests. These selected will be transferred to NROTC. The colleges to which the men will be transferred may be any one having vacancies in the NROTC programs.
The October Commencement—The 100th—Was The Last Formal Graduation Until The War's End
5
4 I
The Week
■jg se ^e-~	^E_- -^’g-■stk'-se
BY HARRY LE BIEN AND TOM GAINES
TOP OF THE WEEK
End of the semester.
❖
PIQUE OF THE WEEK
While inspecting closets in Zahm, the other A.M., the chief ambled into Gorden Gilmer’s room with a discordant and astringent gleam in his good eye. Seaman Gilmer immediately told him that there was nothing but clothes in -his closet.
The chief began busily to examine the entrails of the aforementioned closet, and when the smoke had cleared, he came up with a bottle of “cough medicine.” “I thought you had only clothes in the closet,” he said in a benevolent tone, reeking with covert fervor.
“Sure chief,” said Gordy meekly, “That’s my nightcap!”
CONVERSATION OF THE WEEK
Statesman: “Food will win the war!”
Notre Dame V-12: “Yeah, but how are you going to get the Japs into the Notre Dame mess hall?”
THAT’S OUR BOY....
All dressed up in flat hats and washed ears Company B was marching smoothly to have its company picture taken. Leading the radiating group to the Library steps was Manuel Gan, the company commander. Everything went smartly; peace reigned in ranks.
With true naval discipline the men said nothing when the Commerce building was passed and Science Hall hove into sight. Mumblings were heard, however, when this ancient edifice was passed and the Huddle came into view. Finally some one broke:
“Is this the long way to the Library, or did they move it last night?” queried a meek voice.
Glaring at the speaker, Seaman Gan looked about him, puzzled.
“That’s funny,” he exclaimed, “ I would have sworn the Library was right behind the Huddle!”
LEST WE FORGET
For a great many this will be their last semester at Notre Dame; for others a mere interlude before returning. Whatever the position, however, we
doubt if any one can attend this University without gaining memories of a life which becomes increasingly appreciated when viewed with the perspective and clearness of the passage of time. For us who' leave Notre Dame it is the small things that will stick in our minds, like . . .
The unreal shadows and motion of morning calisthenics which become, like shaving, an annoying but necessary action of which you remember little. . . . The way guys shout up and down the halls, and the forced whisper: “Knock it off, the chief’s coming.” . . . Walking to classes in the morning, and watching the early sun reflecting off the windows . . . cheering your lungs out at the Sea Hawks game, and the deep satisfaction it gave to sing the Victory March . . . the startling jar of the 0600 bell, and the wonderful comfort of your bed . . . the eternal grousing at the food, and the many and varied attempts to get two helpings of ice cream . . . the Service Men’s Center, and your constant amazement at the kindness of its Ladies . . . the campus on a clear day, and the golden-dome shining in the sun. . . .
“Am I too late for dinner?" “Yep, everybody's eaten."
SQUEAK OF THE WEEK
While collecting papers after a half hour quiz in Business Law, Mr. McMichael came out with the following-: “Now pass the papers to the front of the room and have a sheet of carbon paper under- each one so I can correct all the mistakes at the same time.”

INTERLUDE
So, it is with pain in our hearts and crib notes in our sleeves that we come to the culmination of our college careers once again. The last time that happened, the Navy came along and temporarily scooped it up, but it looks as if we’ll really have to put the service flag on our door this time. Of course, by culmination, we don’t really mean the end, but just an intermezzo in the stirring symphony of learning, because it won’t be long before we’ll be back overlooking the indomitable spirit of the Fighting Irish.
So it is with sincere anticipation that we look forward to the time when once again we’ll be worrying about such things as “Did Father Burke see me crawling in the window last night at two A.M.?” or, “Will the Prof hold it against me just because I brought him an apple and then ate it after class?”
BOTTOM OF THE WEEK
So long, Notre Dame.


6
NROTC Ball at Service Center Honors First Graduates in Notre Dame Unit
BY EDWARD SINGELYN	’
|	Marine Murmurs	I
:	By Private Knoc-E Toff	E
QlHIIItlllltlllHIIIillllttlilllllHIIItlllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllltll p
This week the crucial point in the now notorious “Battle of Notre Dame” will be reached. How many will falter and fall? How many will gain their objective? Not even ‘-scuttlebutt” has an answer. For those who succeed we recommend “Murine” for those pouchy eyes. For those who don’t — come and see us. We’d be glad to punch your “TS” cards. They express oui- sentiments beautifully.
Last week end had its usual number of parties. The St. Mary’s Sophomore formal was held in the paneled halls of the Rock’s spacious ball room. We understand Terry McGovern was at his best at this dance. Money flowed fast and fiercely at a party at the Indiana Club. Joe Brennan and his wife won between nine and ten thousand.' Joe says he’d like to put it all in war bonds!
Sure was cold coming in from Reid’s Saturday night for the Elks — Funny, , didn’t notice any swollen ears on the base Sunday (or Monday).
How-di-do's: .
To Mrs. J. W. Finney and Betty Finney who came to South Bend last Sunday. Capt. Finney and his family will reside at 734 Park Ave.
Mr. Bob Witte, our beloved Physics prof, has often said that there is nothing smaller than the atom. It’s about time someone put him wise and let him take a peek at our monthly paycheck.
Stranger Than Fiction
. . . the gunner, Pvt. Haid, (Quiet or I’ll deck you) said to his beloved, a cow-belle from Purdue, quote:
“If you love the kid, go out to Arizona and marry him.” Isn’t the situation under control, gunny boy? — Ralph Abell, the" old muskrat trapper from N.D. seemed to have put the wrong bait on his set at P.U. too. Oh, well, — season is just about over anyway — right little fella?
R. O. Ball Guests Pose For Tex Renaud
Last Friday, the Naval Reserve Officers’ Training Corps at Notre Dame staged its graduation ball at the Palais Royale, from 2100 to 0100.
The Palais was rigged from stem to stern as a nautical motif. Mounting the gangplank, the couples were received by Captain J. Richard Barry, U.S.N., commanding officer at Notre Dame, and Mrs. Barry. Commander H. B. Butcher, U.S. N.R., and his guest, Miss Cooney, Chairman William W. Wicks and Miss Ruth-anne Baker, and Battalion Commander Charles M. Urruela and Miss Jackie Buesing were also in the receiving line. Cadet Edward J. Singelyn acted as captain’s aid for the evening.
The music of Buddy Franklin and his orchestra provided the entertainment, and sweet and sentimental strains reigned for the pleasure of all hands. One hundred and seventy couples en-
“What is this little story in Pvt. Knoc E. Toff’s column about little kids?” Pvt. Lubarsky has offered to write a real “He-man” episode about his weekends, -entitled “Life Gives Off at Michigan City.” For references on characters and ideal muskrat grounds “where the fur is the thickest” see the last chapter, page 1342, figure 27, in his manuscript.
Famous Quotes and Comments:
“This is going to be like Boot Camp, you guys.”—MacCarthey
“Don’t tell me your troubles — the
joyed every minute of the dancing, and. voted, “the best ever” to the chairman and his committee.
Harriet Collins was feature vocalist, and her songs blended for the perfect combination; the sweethearts of the strings—Yvonne, Hope, and Sylvia— added the background. “Absolutely danceable” is the perfect description.
Chairman Bill Wicks and Ruthanne Baker led the grand march, and Station WSBT held a 25 minute broadcast from the bandstand for the entertainment of the less fortunate.
Cadet Joseph Sansonne summarized a few of the memorable activities of the Unit since its establishment in 1941, and having them reviewed proved both interesting and amusing.
Dress blues and white gloves were the uniform for the dance, and 0230 permissions were granted all hands.
chaplain is three doors down.” .	’—Hyndman
“Put me down. I’m only 12.”
—The Greek
“Give me another, Bud.”—Kessler “Quiet or I’ll take another card.”
■	.	—Cunningham
“I’ll have it for you tomorrow—”
—Vorspan
“Five now for six on payday?”
—Archer
“Aweight, hurry-up, on the double, you guys!”—Hollar	.	~
(Continued on Page 23)
7
M M
X
THE GREEN BANNER
BY JIM CASEY AND "BUZZ" HASSETT
GOOD STORY
The best story of the week concerns one Tom McCaughey of St. Ed’s. Tom’s current • heartbeat attends St. Mary’s, along with her twin sister. The other afternoon he was strolling down Michigan Avenue, when he spied his one-and-only on the opposite side of the street. Crossing rapidly against the red light, he intercepted her, and, being in the chips, extended an invitation to the theatre, dinner, etc., in the best McCaughey manner. Together they spent a very pleasant four hours and $14. Tom was floating on clouds, but alas, fate is sometimes cruel. Upon bidding one another sweet dreams on the threshold of Saint Mary’s, she confessed — Tom had been romancing with the wrong sister.
ACROSS THE WAY
St. Mary’s Sophomore dance, last Saturday, was a social as well as a financial success, we understand. One more trumpet in that band and we would have mistaken it for Doomsday. Caron made it, of course, but Daiker didn’t; neither did Currier.... The punch had a new tooth paste flavor, not bad at all. At 11:30, the armed guard assumed their battle stations, and the gentlemen from N. D. beat an orderly retreat sans casualties.
ELSEWHERE
The nurses at St. Joseph’s hospital are getting quite a blow from the students, these days—especially from Jim Constantine and George Keenan... and from what we’ve seen, the boy’s taste is excellent. _What we would like to know is “What happened to Dean McCarthy’s , yellow sweater?” ... In Frank Carver’s editorial of last week, there was one St. Mary’s phone number he neglected to insert. For further information, consult him personally.... “Buck” Fanning is all smiles, these days; glamorous Kay James has returned to St. Mary’s.... Who was the NROTC who cut himself out of all his classes Friday? He spent the day at the N. D. laundry, looking for a date for the Ball, but none of the girls seemed interested.... Well, the operetta is over, and Dick Ames can sing popular songs once more.... Orchids to the entire cast for an excellent performance... Due to the paper shortage, there will be fewer, crib notes next week. ... Our sympathies to the glunk who
8	'
had his skiis sent out when he saw the snow, and who has spent his time ever since looking for hills in Indiana... Sail boating on St. Mary’s lake has been cancelled.__Who was the NROTC who claimed he had a good time at the dance with his blind date, but encountered a wee bit of trouble as her seeing-eye dog couldn’t dance the two-step.
❖
ODDS AND ENDS
Latent Notre Dame interest in St. Mary’s has us baffled; and competition, these days in these parts, is keen. Editorials, pictures, articles, etc., have inundated this sprightly pulp weekly, with the added reaction that Scholastic editors have been complimented for discovering gold in their own backyard. “Go west, young man, Go west,” is finally coming into its own. Indeed, we look askance at those puny penmen who made disparaging remarks about our lovely neighbors; Shame on the blackguards who “imported” dates for recent dances. And what has Rosary, or Barat, or Mundelein got that St. Mary’s cannot equal,
yes even surpass? One more word to the contrary, and we’ll send Creighton Miller after you with a vengeance. There!! We’ve said it!! (Now, Weetie, put that gun down!)
The NROTC called it a big week-end. “What with Buddy Franklin and the weather,” said one old salt from the U. S. S. Walsh, “all hands had to step lively.” A cursory glance at the feminine guests revealed a remarkably good taste among our future ensigns. For once in their lives, Bateman and Guiney and Daiker were happy about the whole thing.
“Tex” Crowley’s rotation of his gallery has always intrigued us. This week, South Bend figures to show; Duke University “places,” but the Navy (Wave) is out in front by a safe margin—anyway, that .was the latest position we observed. We hesitate to quote odds....
Talk of Bengal Bouts brings to mind the memory of St. Ed’s and the famous “A.C.” The old. club is really steeped in tradition, you know. Never a winner, perhaps, but always strong on competition. ...
Things may be bad, but they could be worse. After all, we haven’t had the pictures of either Fanning or’ O’Keefe on the cover of the Scholastic for three weeks! And if you see Fanning heading
(Continued on page 31)
PROF. F. M. BROWN RETURNS FROM MISSION TO CHINA AND NEAR EAST
Know Your Navy
BY EDWARD MADDEN AND ED MIKHELSON
Professor Frank M. Brown, head of the department of aeronautical engineering at the University of Notre Dame, has returned to the University after completing a mission in China and the Near East for the United States government.
Professor Frank M. Brown
The trip, which extended over the period from May. to November, included flying all the way via the recently revealed Ascention Island route, and some 70-hours of flying in China alone, visiting the schools, air centers, and other essential points involved in the study.
In reporting his conclusions Prof, Brown recounted many points of interest. First of all, he reports that the Chinese universities, despite their moving in many cases from their traditional •sites, and their loss of equipment from such moves and from bombings, have preserved their faculties and their curricula to a surprising and effective degree. In the field of engineering, which was his special interest, Prof. Brown said that the Chinese situation in academic training was almost as satisfactory as the present American college field. The morale is good, and there is no immediate need of teachers.
The scope of the mission, extended after Prof. Brown left the United States, took him also to India, Egypt, Turkey, and the Near Eastern countries to make similar studies and recommendations.
The first result of the survey concerning China is the setting up of an avenue for receiving Chinese engineering students on a graduate assistant status in this country. Some 700 Chinese graduate engineers will be absorbed annually by the_American colleges, working through a new office in the Chinese Embassy, through the Chinese National Resources Commission, the Commission on Aeronautical Affairs of the Chinese-government, and the China Defense Supplies organization.
The University of Notre Dame, Prof. Brown revealed, has agreed to take four such Chinese students. They will work in chemistry and chemical engineering.
The reason for this action, Prof Brown maintained, is that the basic defect of the engineering education in China is the absence of industrial opportunities for the young graduate. As a result, instead of the practical apprenticeship such as American industry offers the college man, the young Chinese engineer begins immediately with neither a professorship or a.government ministry job, or a position completely outside his field. The American college cooperation will permit these young men to put their training to immediate use.
Prof. Brown expects this cooperation to be extended to Egypt and Turkey, and other countries. He believes that through this educational program, our government has one of its most effective approaches to the people of other countries. And he added that already our state department seems to be basing its program on this idea of a cultural and social approach to other peoples, over and above military of trade relations.
The original American program involves only about $75,000 in scholarships, but Prof. Brown expects the program to grow as more schools and more fields open their doors. There is also a tentative program forming to enlist industry in absorbing young Chinese engineers for practical work training. This completed program would give China a teacher replacement, laboratory experts, and men with industrial experience.
Prof. Brown’s trip naturally had many interesting sidelights. He met all of the educators in his field in the various countries. He visited both Generalissimo and Madame Chiang Kai Shek on several occasions. Her autograph is on one wing of an aluminum model plane presented to Prof. Brown by Commander Wong of the China Air Force technical training schools, and presented in turn to the Institute of Aeronautical Science in this country by Prof. Brown. The other wing bears the autograph of General Claire Chennault, with whom Prof. Brown flew a part of his journey.
Mr. Brown has been asked to continue as a consultant in this field by our State Department and by the Chinese ministry of education.
(No. 3 in a series of articles by Lieut, (j.g) J. J. Collins.)
Although the Civil War was primarily a land fight, the Navy played a significant role. The importance of the control of the sea was strikingly exemplified during this contest. The Navy’s contribution consisted of both what it
accomplished and what it prevented the Confederate Navy from accomplishing. Its greatest achievements were:
. 1. The blockade of the Confederate
coast.
2. The splitting of the Confederacy by taking the Mississippi River.
Both of those operations were essential for the shutting off of munitions and supplies from the Confederate armies. Furthermore, the blockade prevented the South from obtaining the necessary materials to carry out -her ambitious Navy building program.
It is important that we evaluate and note the effect of one engagement — the Monitor and the Merrimac. As one authority said, “Probably no naval conflict in the history of the world ever attracted so much attention as did the Monitor and the Merrimac. It revolutionized the navies of the world, and showed that the wooden ships, which had long held control of the ocean, were of no further use for fighting purposes.” Of all the celebrated naval battles since antiquity, this is the only one which achieved its place in history mainly because it was indecisive. It was the futility of the long and furious can-(Continued on Page 28)	.
V-12 Executive Committee Members
would be of interest to the Navy and Marine trainees. Under the direction of
As exam week stands by, prepared to usher out the second semester of the V-12 unit’s existence on the Notre Dame campus, sailors and marines can, with a smile and a flock of pleasant memories, look back upon four months studded with successful social and entertainment activities.
Moving quietly and efficiently behind the scenes, six men cloaked in an official capacity as “the V-12 executive committee,” heard the challenge of their First Lieutenant at the beginning of the semester and met it with initiative and willingness.
Heading the committee was Seaman John Toole, industrious Irishman from Garden City, Long Island. His co-workers were Seaman Clayton Toddy, Pvt. Bud Davis, Seaman Bill Ferrick, Pvt. John Mattmiller, and Seaman Frank Keenan.
The seeds of the executive committee were planted in August, 1943, when Lt. (j.g.) J. J. Collins was informed that the V-12 trainees were clamoring for a navy ball or dance. He agreed with the men that there was a definite need for a planned social life, but he was not certain as to what action should be taken.
John Toole, who led those fostering the idea, learned from Lt. Collins that in order that such a ball might materialize, it would be necessary to have all the cash on hand before any contracts for services-were made, that a complete and detailed plan would have to he submitted to the executive officer, and that he “didn’t think it would work any way.”
In early September, however, all conditions were met and approval was secured from the Commanding and Executive officers. With all details taken care of, Toole’s dance committee went to work in earnest.
The first V-12 ball was held on Friday, Oct. 15, and it set a standard for high-class social entertainment for the station and the University. It was a nip and tuck struggle for a while to see that all “the dough was in the pocket.” As Lt. Collins recollects, “When the ball was over, there were many sad trainees — those who hadn’t attended, hut they made up their minds that they would he at the next V-12 ball. (And they were!)”
With the success of this initial naval
Round Out Successful Program
BY SEAMAN AL BROTEN
social venture on the campus, it became apparent to the First Lieutenant that there was a definite need for a committee to investigate the social possibilities in South Bend and on the Notre Dame campus. Surely among the hundreds of sailors and marines, there was a wealth of talent which could easily be tapped to advantage.
Volunteers were called for; meeting's were held; a group was selected. To this committee, Lt. Collins then presented the problems which faced them and the successes they might hope to attain.
Rolling up their sleeves and digging-in to settle the destiny of the committee, these six “marked” men first determined to wrestle with the Scholastic and encourage its editors to promote navy and marine participation. Finding a willingness on the part of the Scholastic stalwarts and its adviser, Father Carey, to cooperate, men from the V-12 unit who were interested in journalism soon appeared on the staff. News concerning the unit received the publicity it demanded.
The committee decided upon the production of a Christmas program which
Left to right: (front) Lt. (J.G.) J. J. Collins, Frank Keenan, Bud Davis;
(rear) John Mattmiller, John Toole, Clayton Toddy, and Bill Ferrick.
—Photo by Haller
Clayton Toddj^, this program was enthusiastically 1'eceived; it “went over with a bang.”
To show their appreciation and the appreciation of the entire unit for the people who had made the Service Men’s Center in South Bend possible, a Christmas wreath was presented to it. Once again the V-12 got' the jump on the other units. It was the only token of thanks received by the Center.
The second V-12 ball then copped the limelight as Pvt. Bud Davis, veteran of the initial dance, took over the general chairmanship. There was no difficulty in getting men to work on the committee this time, nor was there any trouble in selling the “bids.” Bud and his committee men were complimented from all sides. At 6 a.m. the following morning, however, sleepy-eyed Lt. Collins and the thirty Marine privates who had to clean up the drill hall were “agin” all dances. By 0900 the entire hall was cleaned out and cleaned up. Whatta job!
A series of “night of fun” to be staged with talent from the unit itself were next planned by the committee. Chiefs Broderick and Ijams supervised and Seaman Noel Digby, with Bob Schellenberg, Jim Cassidy and Joe O’Keefe, assumed general control. Three shows called “Nights and Daze” were
10
presented in Washington Hall and they all met with unanimous approval. They had been financed through the surplus remaining from the last V-12 ball.
The final act of the executive committee during the semester was to appropriate $150 toward the cost of the motion picture shown in the drill hall, $300 toward defraying part of the cost of a party at the Service Men’s Center, and another $100 as a direct contribution to the Center.
If a knowledge of all parts of the nation had anything to do with the success of an executive committee, Seaman Toole was an ideal selection for a member. During his brief existence, he has resided in Kansas City, Chicago, Philadelphia, and Garden City. Insisting that he is “very Irish,” Seaman Toole is spending his fourth semester at Notre Dame. He is the newly elected vice-president of the Commerce Forum.
When Seaman Toole musters his committee at the beginning of next semester, he will find that his fold is lacking three men — Frank Keenan, Bud Davis, and John Mattmiller. These men are being transferred to Midshipmen’s School, and Marine Officer training.
Fr. Maloughney Leaves
Father William Maloughney, well known campus professor, and former rector of Zahm Hall, terminates his assignment to Notre Dame with the close of the current semester. He came to Notre Dame in 1940 from St. Joseph’s College, New Brunswick, where he had been stationed for- many years. Here on campus he taught philosophy, and later resumed his laboratory work by teaching physics.
In 1942 he was appointed rector of Zahm Hall, home of freshmen. He retained this post until recently when the Canadian Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross formed an English-speaking Mission Band, and selected Father Maloughney to be one of its first members. His new headquarters will be in Montreal, Canada, motherhouse of the Canadian Province of the Congregation.
Winners of Interhall Medals
Requested to Call for Them
The- Interhall medals - which will be awarded to the winners and runnerups of the basketball leagues, and the wrestling, handball, and badminton tournaments are ready in the office of Dr. John A. Scannell, director of the department of physical education. The winners are requested to call for them at their earliest convenience.
Mr. Kormendi to Exhibit
Sculptures in Florida
Eugene Kormendi, instructor of sculpture at the University, left this week for Palm Beach, Fla. Originally from Budapest, Hungary, the sculptor has been invited to hlod a three-week exhibit of his sculptures and paintings in the Northern gallery. Mrs. Kormendi will exhibit her ceramics at the same time.
Lectures Here
Dean Emeritus Roscoe Pound, of the Harvard Law School, has been on the Notre Dame Campus for five days, giving a series of four lectures. The topic spoken on was “The History and Development of the Legal Profession.”
The lectures were held in the Auditorium of the Law Building, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. On Monday Dean Pound discussed the Legal profession from Antiquity to 312 A.D., Tuesday he developed the subject of Law in the Middle Ages, Wednesday he told of the English Law up to the time of
Dean Emeritus Roscoe Pound
Colonization, and on Thursday night he discussed the History of the Legal Profession in America.
Dean Pound graduated from the Harvard Law School in 1890, and after ten years of practice, started his great career as professor of law at the University of Nebraska. Since that time, 1903, he has taught .continuously.
In -1916 he .became-Dean of the .Harvard Law School. He served in that po- . sition for 20 years.	.
During his teaching career, he has . taught every subject in the law curriculum. At present he lectures on Jurisprudence at Harvard.
He is president of the Association of
By Steve Loyacano
Stepping into spotlight this week is the genial Joseph Thomas David O’Keefe. Hailing from near-by Chicago, Joe was merely following the family tradition when he enrolled at Notre Dame. His two brothers, Barry and Jimmy, graduated from the University, and his sister, Mary Frances, attended St. Mary’s.
Barry, now a lieutenant in the Navy, graduated from the Notre Dame College of Law in 1932. In ’36, Jimmy said farewell to the University with his diploma. And now the O’Keefes have delivered another Notre Dame son—Joe. Incidentally, to make air-tight the fact that the family is truly an example of the Notre Dame spirit, we may add that in addition to his sister, Mary, graduating from. St. Mary’s in 1940, Joe’s “steady,.Pat Daley, is enrolled there now.
Tracing Joe’s career in his field of education, we find that nothing unusual happened in his grammar school days. However, as he entered Fenwick High school, the born leadership began to develop. He was elected vice-president of his sophomore class and later president of his junior class. As a junior he was chairman of the Junior Prom and editor of his school periodical, the Wick.
Joe entered Notre Dame, in the fall of 1941. As a freshman he won an award for the highest average in the Commerce Forum. Working himself up from an officer of the Forum last -year, he is now its president.
In 1943, things changed for Joe. He switched from his loud sport coats and sharp ties to the blue of the Navy. Now, although there was a greater demand on his time, he still found time to assist in writing the V-12 shows, Nights and Daze. He was also chairman of the ticket committee of the recent V-12 Ball. And he was chairman of transportation for the previous dance.
Joe is one of the best liked platoon leaders here at Notre Dame. Right now he has his mind set on leading his V-12 Champions to victory over-the tough . basketball outfit from St. Ed’s.
American Law Schools, and president of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, in addition to belonging to many associations of law and education, in America and foreign countries.
CONDON NEW SCHOLASTIC EDITOR
Twelve Man Snow Crew
in Charge of Clearing Paths
By Sectman Ed Mikkelson
Last week, when the first real snow of the year finally arrived, varying opinions were expressed as to its desirability. Most of those in the military units were pleasantly effected in that calisthenics were called off. The boys from up north rejoiced, and the boys from points south objected. However, only one campus group is really entitled to any complaints. That group is the snowremoval crew under the foreman Mike Mozer, who has been chasing snow flakes around the Golden Dome for almost a decade.
This crew of about twelve men is under standing orders to get to work extra early on snowy mornings. Members of the regular grounds maintenance force, the snow crew men- have to hit the deck at about 0300 in order to clear- the many thousands of yards of paths and roadways on the Notre Dame campus. They are aided by two tractors equipped with snow plows. These two
units, one a “Worthington” and the other a “Toro,” together with their plows, represent an investment of about $1300 to the university. Up until four years ago, all 'snow removal was done by shovels, powered by the well known “elbow grease.” Then the tractors were purchased, and also equipped with other-general yard work attachments—mowers, drags, etc. Since last year’s bad snow problem, the maintenance department under Father Reddington and Mr. Jerry Sechowski has been considering the purchase of a power brush attachment to make the job easier.
In spite of the tractor’s help, the job is an extensive one, and a large snow fall places a heavy burden on the snow crew. There was a plan suggested whereby Navy and Marine trainees might work off. demerits by pushing a shovel. Fortunately (or unfortunately as the case may be) a Naval regulation prohibits such expenditure of trainee labor. Take heed, you seamen and privates, the next time you leap desperately from the path of a hurtling snow plow or hear the rhythmic scrape of a shovel. There, but for the grace of God and the Navy Department, goes you.
The snow crew clears campus paths
MARINE V-12 AND NAVY V-7, V-12 WILL HAVE
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
According to an announcement from the Board of Publications this week, David Condon, Arts and Letters Junioi-from Las Vegas, New Mexico, was appointed Editor-in-Chief of the Scholas- * y tic for the coming- semester. He sue- < ceeds F. J. Pequigney, of Galveston, *' j Texas, who, with this issue, completes	i
his second term as head of the staff of I editors.	’"■m |
Condon brings to the Scholastic edi- j torship two years of experience, as a member of the news-staff. Last spring, t he left the University to enter the serv- " ’ r ice. In January he was honorably dis-charged, and returned to South Bend 1 where he accepted a position with the Tribune.
Associate Editor	/ >
In keeping with the arrangement in- * itiated at the beginning of the semester, the V-12 and Marine Units will have participation in the magazine by a full 4. coverage of all their activities, planned and written by members of those units. Thus, the magazine will reveal itself as an authoritative and comprehensive >• journal of every phase of campus life. Furthermore, the plan of Associate Edi- r' torships will insure a better arrangement of campus elements to achieve order and unity of coverage. Complete Marine and V-12 staffs will work as units, supervised by Marine and V-12 t Associate Editors. The same arrangement will apply to civilians on campus. The ROTC will continue to be represented only through its news and sports J editors. The V-7 participation in the	-<<!|
Scholastic will emanate, as usual, J frpm the Office of the Director of Pub- < lie Relations, under the supervision of Lieut, (j.g.) Paul T. Sprinz. Thus the magazine will endeavor to offer a com-	»!
plete record of the activities of all	(j
groups on campus.
In order to bring this new editorial , plan to a successful reality, many staff ' <n members will be needed. For this reason, other editorial positions are being withheld until the beginning of the next term, to enable those entering school at j that time to file applications.	I
Meantime, those on campus who plan | to return to school and who are inter- < ested in writing for the Scholastic, are j urged to notify the Faculty Advisor, Room 215, Walsh Hall.	|
Names of the complete staff will ap- ’■ pear in the first issue of the new term. <
12
Service Center Welcomes V-7 Trainees;
Offers its Many Facilities to Newcomers
Not only has the University of Notre Dame, its students and faculty, extended a warm welcome to the 1200 new V-7 trainees who have recently arrived here, but the citizens of South Bend, through their organization, the Service Men’s Center, have done commendable work in providing the utmost in excellent recreational facilities for the new men as well as for all service men at home or visiting the city. The Center, on Colfax Avenue near Michigan St., is unique in that it is entirely supported through the efforts of the local citizenry, and unlike most service organizations, receives no outside assistance from the U. S. 0. or similar national associations.
The South Bend Service Men’s Centeroffers the individual practically an unlimited number of ways to enjoy his time while on liberty in town. Formerly known as the Palais Royale Ballroom, the Center is well equipped to handle the hundreds of men who flock there for dancing Saturdays and Sundays on the spacious balloroom floor. Moreover, there is always the opportunity to dance on the floor of the mezzanine balcony, in between sips of soft drinks which are available at the refreshment bar in the balcony.
What is probably the most important requirement to make a place like the Service Men’s Center a success is an abundance of attractive young women to serve as hostesses and dancing partners and provide a little feminine companionship. In this respect the Centei- is a complete success. Not only is a corps of cadettes always on duty, but also there are hundreds of South Bend girls regularly enrolled as hostesses on Saturdays and Sundays, the busiest days of the week.
For those who, at the moment, do not care to dance, the Center offers a variety of other recreational activities. The ping pong tables on the mezzanine balcony seldom remain idle, as table tennis enthusiasts allow competitive spirits free reign. On the ground floor to the left of the spacious lounge is an extensive library containing many of today’s best sellers, as well as books to interest every conceivable literary taste. The atmosphere here, too, is peaceful and very conducive to reading. Next to the library is the Center’s music room. At specified hours during the day the serviceman may drop in, sink into a comfortable easy chair, and listen to the world’s most beautiful classical music. A large and well-rounded
collection of records, embracing Tschai-kowsky, Beethoven, Mozart, Wagner and many more ,of the old masters, are always on hand.
As the sailor, marine, or soldier pushes his way through the swinging glass doors of the South Bend Service Men’s Center he is met by a cluster of 'desks in one corner of an extensive lounge. Here it is that the multitudinous activities of the Center are directed. And it is here, too, that the service man learns of the organization’s numerous services. If he is one of the fortunate early birds he will have his choice of a number of free tickets to any of the city’s movies. Or perhaps he will be in the vicinity when one of the frequent calls from South Bend townspeople come to the desk inviting a number of boys to dinner. Here also the Center conducts its housing service, finding living quarters in town for guests of Notre Dame’s service men. Over and above these and many other services^ the little group of desks acts as an efficient information center, giving help on practically every problem, or at least knowing where to go to find the required aid.
In the outer lobby of the Center stands a huge bulletin board. On his way in or out it would be worth the individual’s while to stop a moment and examine its contents. For here are posted numerous pictures and clippings of general interest, as well as dozens of notices which may well prove to be of considerable value. Notices of future events, schedules of church services, offers of transporta
tion to other cities, and other group or-indvidual offers are published here.
The comfortable, roomy lounge is one of the Center’s most popular spots-Spread throughout the room on the ground floor, at the foot of the wide,
stone staircase leading to the ballroom, are deep, comfortable easy chairs and sofas. Hundreds of magazines of every type, including all the more popular publications, are scattered through the room and constantly perused by servicemen with a few extra minutes to while away.
When one gazes upon the array of edibles constantly served at the balcony snack bar, one comes to the conclusion that the Service Men’s Center operates on the theory that “the way to a man’s heart is through his stomach.” For over the bar and into the hungry hands of thousands of soldiers, sailors and marines passes food ranging all the way from well-balanced, full-course meals to sandwiches, cookies, cakes, and soft drinks. Here is a place that is never empty; here are generous hostesses who are never idle.
Yes, the South Bend Service Men’s Center does all this and much more. There are facilities for writing letters, typing, making telephone calls, checking parcels and clothing, relaxing at a card game or playing checkers. And there are a number of kindly ladies who are ready and willing to take over a task long dreaded by the ordinary man—making repairs on lost or loose buttons; sewing up holes, etc., making the uniform look new again.
The Service Men’s Center is one of the most pleasant and longest-lingering memories the trainees have of South Bend. The city and its citizens should take a just pride in this patriotic endeavor, and continue to support it wholeheartedly.
13
Staff Sketches
worries end after copy is in, but Bob worries until the paper is off the press Friday afternoon. . . . His is a rather thankless job, but a very important one.
Sports Editor
Editor-in-Chief
Editor Farre “Tex” Pequigney has weathered two of the most critical semesters in the life of the Scholastic. His has been a job of tact and collaboration. The change-over from the purely civilian magazine to one representing the V-12 contingent stationed on campus was not an easy one, and the brunt of the work rested on the “chief,” as is the case in all organizations. The result has been a representative magazine which maintains its popularity even through the stress of this somewhat crucial period.
Farre Joseph Pequigney was born and reared in Galveston, Texas. He attended St. Patrick’s school and Kirwin High school where he took a leading part in the Kinvinite, was class president three years, and was valedictorian of the graduating class.
In September, 1941, “Tex” entered Notre Dame on the Meehan Scholarship. He has majored in English, having a magna cum laude average. Now a second semester junior, he is president of the Bookmen, a member of the Wranglers, and a two-year man on the Scholastic, one of which was spent in the position of editor-in-chief.
There are two things about which “Tex” is very sure. One is that Galveston and Notre Dame are the two hubs of the universe. The second is that there is too much censorship on the Scholastic.
Associate Editor
Associate editor Ralph Abell . . . “Little Abe” . . . “Abie” . . . Born 21 years ago in St. Louis. . . . Attended Roosevelt High School in St. Louis . . . played baseball and basketball . . . was a journalism major at University of Missouri . . . worked in restaurant while going to university . . . was on staff of Missouri Shoiv-me.
Ralph enlisted in the Marine Corps reserve in April 1943 . . . was elated when orders came to report to Notre Dame . . . “really a high class place.” . . . much better than “Slippery Rock Tech” ... is now contemplating becoming a Midshipman . . . wants to get going in this war . . . disappointed because he couldn’t go to boot camp this time. . . . Biggest thrill at Notre Dame was sitting in the pressbox at Seahawk game . . . likes N.D. Marine Detachment better as time goes by . . . really “goes
for” required math and physics . . . credits for . . . his degree?
“Little Abe” thinks South Bend has its merits . . . favorite haunts . . . Sweeney’s . . . Saturday . . . D.A.V. on Sunday afternoon . . . indulges, only to be sociable . . . likes to be sociable . . . “converses” with fairer sex . . . spends money freely . . . §50 minus deductions per month . . . buys §50 war bonds . . . every three months . - . his favorite hobby is baseball . . . plays anywhere . . . on the diamond.
Managing Editor
Bob O’Toole had a good average his third year in high school. It was the year he had the teacher out to the house occasionally. ... In July of 1943 he found himself Managing Editor of the Scholastic. When asked how he likes the job he replied, “It was fun for two weeks.” . . . After .a hard look at O’Toole, one would call him good looking, it is supposed. . . . Even though a Scholastic man, he is quite human. . . . He gripes about the laundry, about the food, and just gripes in general. ... He is the sixth O’Toole to attend Notre Dame, the first to be on the Scholastic staff. . . . As Managing Editor Bob worries about everything. Most staff
Ed Madden, Al Broten, Ralph Abell. John Mattmiller, Tex Pequigney, Frank Keenan, Al Lesmez, and Bill Carey	,
1	—Photo by Renaud
Red-haired and freckle-faced . . . Bill Carey . . . Sports Editor of the Scholastic . . . has held the job for two semesters . . . and worked on the sheet since the first issue of his frosh days. ... A second semester soph now ... in the A.B. school . . . and one of three of the vanished race still on campus ... an ERC man . . . expecting active duty the end of this month.
A New England lad. . . . Bill is from Boston College High, ’42 . . . played hockey there . . . and as a freshman, Avon semi-final heat in N.E. Silver-Skates, before 16,000, beating the eventual winner. . . . Looking- forward to the day when N.D. adopts the great game. ... In high school . . . was Vice-Prexy of his senior class . . . and saluta-torian . . . active in debating, oratory, and dramatics . . . edited high school magazine which won national gold medal. .. . Out here . . . took part in interhall athletics . . . varsity debating . . . and a member of the champ interhall debating squad. . . . Also finished second in a field of ten . . . for president of the frosh. . . .
4
a
v
Has a little “gray matter” in that red head . . . was fifth out of 1200 competitors . . . for scholarship to B.C. High (Continued on page 18)
14
Highlights of the Winter Semester
The "Scholastic" looks back over the past four months, and presents an over-all view in words and pictures.
BY SEAMAN AL BROTEN
As Notre Dame doors prepare to close upon another four months of wartime education, students — both military and civilian — glance back upon a semester which has been a credit to the University, to the faculty, and to themselves.
Reviewing for the inevitable exams of the final week cannot but bring back to most students vivid memories of their buddies who have left during the semester, of the football games they have seen, and of the dances they have attended. They are reminded of the changes and activities of a school, which has succeeded in maintaining its pace in a fast-moving war-torn world.
As the month of November signalled the beginning of the winter semester, it soon became apparent that the navy V-12 unit, one of the nation’s largest, was undergoing important changes in personnel and policy.
The concluding strains of the semester previous had introduced to the Notre Dame campus a new commandant, Capt. J. R. Barry, replacing Capt. H. P. Burnett, who had received an assignment to the fleet.
Also passing from the Notre Dame scene was Lieut.-Comdr. W. S. Howell, V-12 executive officer. His position in the unit was assumed by Lieut.-Comdr. A. R. Pierson, who had previously been the commanding officer of the navy unit, Franklin and Marshall College, Lancaster, Pa.
To the V-12 unit also came 483 sailors and 12 marines, many of whom were transferred from active duty with the fleet or at shore stations. Augmenting the total of civilian undergraduates to 730, an influx of 202 additional was booked in the registrar’s office. Highest enrollments were recorded in the College of Engineering and the College of Science.
To newcomers on the campus, it was evident that everyone in the vicinity (except the midshipmen) were on the Notre Dame football bandwagon, which was inspired by one of the greatest teams in the school’s history. They learned of the Irish domination of each team thus far, and soon became aware by personal observation of the vaunted powers of the Notre Dame aggregation.
One of the important changes occurring during the semester was the com
plete reorganization of the Scholastic, whereby naval groups on the campus would receive wider representation. To discover men who had sufficient interest in publishing an interesting news magazine was a huge task for Father Charles Carey, C.S.C., faculty adviser, and navy and marine officers. At last, however, most of the differences and difficulties were overcome, and Notre Dame received its initial issue of the revamped and revised Scholastic.
Out of the turmoil of publication came a disaster to the news magazine
The five groups that are wartime Notre Dame: the N.R.O.T.C., the Marines, the Civilians, the V-12 Seamen and the Midshipmen
and to the University. A series of fires, obviously set by a pyromaniac, threatened many of the historical buildings on the campus. Most serious was the one which burned out the old Ave Maria building and forced the Scholastic editors to find a new office.
Navy activities were soon highlighted by the appointment of a V-12 executive committee, under the guidance of Lt. (j.g.) J. J. Collins. It was also announced that V-12 trainees would be paid in cash instead of by check, as had
(Continued on page 26) *
15
Pat Chapman Gives C White	.
16
The Fighting Irish—1943 National Gridiron Champions
—Photo by Hath r
-s Out at Stehlin's Victory Band Concert
—Photo by Renaud
Cagers Defeat Valparaiso to highlight Mediocre Basketball Season
—Photo by Haller
17
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE WINTER SEMESTER (Continued)
Bertelli (left) Outstanding Player of Year: Wins Heisman and Walter Camp Trophies
Seniors of NROTC to be Commissioned
STAFF SKETCHES (Continued from page 14)
. . . offered by ex-Ambassador Kennedy. . . . Averaged over 90 there . . . through four years ... set record for honor society membership . . . and under the Dame ... is a cum laude student.
News Editor
Francis Joyce Keenan . . . Scholastic News Editor . . . Joyce after the soldier-poet, Kilmer . . . Frank to his innumerable friends . . . five foot six inch rubber ball of friendliness and enthusiasm . . . native of Dover, New Hampshire ... a second semester Junior .. . in Naval V-12 unit since July . . . will report on March 6th to Midshipmen’s school at Plattsburg, New York, to be a member of the first graduating class of Ensigns from the old national guard camping ground. . . .
Graduate of Dover High School in June, 1941 . . . Junior Class Vice-President . . . won a major “D” as a backstop on the diamond . . . sports editor of school paper. . . .
At present is a Commerce student, but will return to the A.B. school after the Avar . . . expects to major in History or Politics ... a cum laude student . . . hopes some day to make government his life work . . . as freshman played Interhall football and battled for glory as a 135 pounder in the campus Bengal Bouts . . . played part of “Robin” in the University’s Shakespearean effort, The Merry Wives of Windsor . . . has lived in Brownson, Carroll, Dillon, Zahm. . . .
Campus Editor	-
Al Lesmez . . . campus editor . . . one of best workers on the Staff . . . writes “Man About the Campus” . . .
18
his editorial experience extends back into high school . . . Stuyvesant High in New York . . . where he edited the Caliper, literary magazine.
In high school, too, Al co-captained the track and cross-country teams . . . and was class prexy for four years . . . which is a great sign of popularity, we would say . . . has continued both his running and his popularity here at Notre Dame . . . earning freshmen numerals in cross-country . . . and winning obstacle run in summer semester, 1942.
Lesmez is on a 2-A deferment ... a junior in aeronautical engineering . . . has part scholarship from the New York alumni club of Notre Dame . . . plans to continue his studies . . . and then apply for an Ensign’s commission on receiving his degree ... if his draft Board does not have other plans in the meantime.
Though he receives perfumed mail from several New York girls, Al seems to read his blue letters most carefully. . . . They come from a “special” girl in Elmhurst, N. Y.—Miss Annette Jewell.
Feature Editors
A list of newspaper “greats” must include the names Dana, Greeley, Bennett, Pulitzer, Hearst, and — Alton Broten. . . . Al, feature editor of the Scholastic, was born in 1921 in scenic Hudson, Wisconsin. . . . Accomplishments in journalism include: editor, of the Hudson High newspaper ... coeditor of that school’s yearbook . . . sports writer for the Hudson Star-Observer . . . assistant editor of Student Voice, the newspaper of River Falls (Wis.), State Teachers’ College . . . news reporter on the St. Cloud, Minn., Daily Times.
Al joined the navy in July, 1942. . . . Boot training at Great Lakes ... assigned to U.S.S. APc-43—to South Pacific . . . was Quartermaster, 2c . . . reported to Notre Dame November 1 ... he is now threatened by physics on one hand and his roommate on the other. ... At home, Al was considered a joy to his family.
The ambition of Alton Broten — to be the world’s greatest journalist . . . alternate ambition — to be President of the United States. . . .
Administration Editor
Edward Madden — dark complex-ioned and ambitious administration editor of The Scholastic, who, since his appointment to this position shortly after the beginning of the semester, has been a well-known figure to many executives on the Notre Dame campus. Ed, who is a proud native of Gary, Indiana, graduated from Emerson High School of that city. He also attended the University of Indiana for one semester prior to joining the Notre Dame V-12 unit. Ed’s writing talents first blossomed forth when he was editor of the Emersonian, his high school yearbook, and later as columnist for the Gary PostTribune.	*
In addition to his extra-curricular successes on the staff, Ed organized in mid-semester two groups: the Anselm Forum, and the Boys’ State Alumni. His ambition is to become a Christian journalist. As a navy man, Ed hopes to receive a commission in the chaplain corps.
To the fellows on the first floor of Dillon Hall, Ed Madden is a character of wit and vitality. For a smile and a (Continued on page 23)
Tracksters Meet Michigan Tomorrow
Krausemen Close Season Against the Best of the Midwestern Cage Teams
BY JIM FENNELLY
That victory gleam back in their eye once more as a result of a win over the Violets of New York University, Notre Dame’s basketeers head down the homestretch of a not too successful season with hope in their hearts and their collective fingers crossed. Four games remain on the schedule, and in all but one the Irish will have to be satisfied with the short odds in the book. Great Lakes, Iowa U., Detroit U. and Camp Grant will be met in that order, and if past performances of these teams are to be a basis of the coming games, the Irish swan song to the ’44 season may be a sad, sad ditty. But many a rash gentleman has been made a few dollars poorer when betting against an underdog Irish team.
Great Lakes will be met tomorrow night in the Chicago Stadium and Coach Tony Hinkle’s charges will be out to make a clean sweep of the two game series, having dropped the Irish two weeks ago on their home court. The “Lakes” have won 27 out of 29 contests and have been the victors in^the last 19 straight. An impressive total for an impressive array of talent.
The sailors attack is led by two gobs who have been pounding the pineboards together for the past 15 years. They are Paul Armstrong and Herman Schaefer both of Fort Wayne, Ind., red hot cage center, where y’ars and y’ars ago in grade school they first started their trek toward basketball fame. Since that time they have played four years at Fort Wayne’s Central High school, four years at Indiana University, and two seasons with the Zollner Pistons, one of the leading pro teams of the Middle West. Schaefer scored 28 points against Bowling Green to set a season’s scoring record, but Armstrong has had games of 25 and 26 points, the latter against Northwestern. Against Purdue last week Armstrong scored 21 points to bring his total for 26 games to 310. This is two more than Bob Calihan’s individual scoring record for the Great Lakes Training Station, made as member of the 1941-42 Lakes team. Schaefer has already broken
this record and has scored 349 points in 29 games.
The Irish will cover themselves with glory if they can cop this game, and the little matter of avenging a certain football loss that occurred way back in December should be an added incentive for a Notre Dame victory.
Iowa University will be met on Feb. 26 in the Irish Fieldhouse, and the con-
Cagers Have Four Tough Gaines To Go
test stacks up to be one of the best games of the year. The Hawkeyes have been the terror of the Big Ten race and had won seven straight conference games before dropping two games to Ohio State University. The Iowa team composed entirely of civilians has been the surprise of the year, and are in a good position to win the Big Ten Conference championship.
The Hawkeyes at present boast the two top scorers of the Big Ten in their starting five. Dick Ives and David Dan-(Continued on page 22)
Irish Underdogs In Dual Meet At Ann Arbor
BY BILL CAREY
Tomorrow afternoon Notre Dame will invade Ann Arbor to face what is rated by many the nation’s most powerful collegiate track team, the University of Michigan. Coach Elvin “Doc” Handy will send against the Wolverines the youngest and most inexperienced group of tracksters to represent the Irish in many years.	■
The blue and gold flyers lost their first meet in three seasons of competition, two Saturdays ago to Marquette on the Hilltopper’s basketball-court saucer 48% to 45%. Missing at the time were N. D.’s four best middle distance men in competition at New York.
Western Michigan, first 1944 indoor opponent, proved a stubborn foe for the Handymen before succumbing 62 to 51. Last Saturday the same Broncos were swamped by the Wolverines 93 to 11, salvaging but one first place in the massacre from the twelve possible. .	-
Acting Captain Frank Martin, sparkplug of the team, will be a leading figure in what promises to be the race of the evening. Sophomore Frank, who has tallied 28 points against Western Michigan and Marquette, will lineup his spikes . beside the two most promising milers in Michigan track history, the Hume twins, Bob and Ross. Captain Bob already has a 4:18 to his credit, with Ross only a few strides to the rear. They are expected to crack the Ann Arbor record of 4:15 this winter. The twins romped across the line last week in a dead heat at 4:21.9. Iron man Martin—half miler, miler and two miler—will encounter the most serious dual competition of his young collegiate career.
Another record is in danger when Notre Dame’s Ralph Pohland and Michigan’s John Roxborough match strides in the half mile. Roxborough won the 880 against Western Michigan in 1:57.4, just four seconds slower than the best in Big Ten history. Pohland, a transfer Marine was Central Collegiate champion when wearing the silks of Minnesota. The entry of Bob Ufer, 600 yard champ of the New York and Boston invitational
(Continued on page 23)
19
Annual "Scholastic" Bengal Bouts Set for April; Proceeds to go for Service Center
BY BILL WADDINGTON
FRANK MARTIN
Notre Dame’s half miler — Notre Dame’s miler — Notre Dame’s two miler are one and the same Frank Martin. Add to that the fact that he is acting captain as well as high point man, and you can picture the phenomenal success of a nineteen-year-old Irish cinder* veteran.
Exactly one week from today, Frank will board the New York Central for Jamaica Estates via Grand Central Station where he plans to spend his leave. Attending Chaminade High, a school well known in Notre Dame sports circles, Martin talked his way into the High School Debate Championship and devoted all spare time to track throughout his four-year stay. Competing chiefly in the halfmile, the New Yorker set . the County Record in two minutes flat, and was amply rewarded for his efforts with six letters, three of which were for cross-country.
In 1940 there was another Martin at Notre Dame and he, too, was a track-ster, a two miler to be exact. .That was Frank’s brother, John, and so in September 1942 it was only natural for Frank to make the trek to the Irish campus.
A freshman resident of St. Ed’s, Martin gained fame in his first year by running with the Varsity against such stars as Gene Venske, ex-mile record holder; Jim Rafferty, national indoor 100-yard champ; and Les Eisenhart. He was a vital cog in the “Handy Machine” of Austin Jones, Don Currie, and Bob Crowley which garnered valuable points in the four and two mile relays at Drake University last spring. Returning last July as a V-12 trainee Frank, already the holder of one monogram, seeks his second. In the meets against Western Michigan and Marquette, he has contributed a combined total of 28 points with victories in the 880, mile, and two mile. One of the big moments’ in the life of Martin occurred the Saturday afternoon that Doc Handy walked into the locker room and told him he ■was to be Acting Captain.
In March Frank will be a Junior in Pre-Med and was pondering over various diagrams of the human anatomy as ' I entered 231 Alumni. His favorite hobby is drawing sports cartoons at which he is quite adept and as for an idol, well naturally enough as a Notre Dame two miler, it is Greg Rice, immortal Irish distance standout.
(Continued on Page 24)
Contrary to current rumors, the “Bengal Bouts,” the University Boxing-Championships, are billed for the middle of April. Every spring, the Scholastic has sponsored the fights, which have drawn real support and boxing talent
from the campus. This is the first time that military trainees have been eligible participants.
The proceeds of this event have always
No, not Charles Atlas. Im training for the Bengal Bouts
been donated to some charitable organization, and this year the Service Center downtown is to be a recipient of the gate receipts.
University Phy-Education authorities, in the person of Mr. John Scannell, head of the department, will be in charge as usual. Mr. Scannell and his assistants have always managed to bring forth excellent competition, and with the accented physical training program now in progress, there is likely to come a good caliber of physical specimens who are rarin’ to go in the ring.
Captain Finney, executive officer of the V-12 School, has expressed his wholehearted consent in behalf of the endeavor, and is very enthusiastic about its success. No one has to be an expert “dukehandler” to enter the event, as the instructors are well-equipped with a knowledge of boxing, and will be available at all set training periods. All that contestants need to have is the determination.
Full details of the classic will be announced in the first edition of Scholastic next semester.
20
Pressbox Splinters
BY BILL WADDINGTON
Notre Dame’s track regulars number in their ranks five marines. Ralph Poh-
land, Roger
DeWolf, Phil Anderson,-Larry Lynch and John Yonaker; the V -12 Navy men listed in the crew are Frank Martin, Tom Clifford, Brad Bennett, Dave Murphy, Don Lunder-! gan, Pete Schwinn, Frank MacCawley, 123 Frank Eck, Jack Caw-
w jj- * ley, B111 TuBy> John
Bill Waddington T ’ . j -m- n Josbem, and Wally
Hogue; the Civilian element is comprised of Fred Jones, John Lyons, Mike Kiely, Fred Lindahl, Bob Purcell, and George Sullivan; the NROTC is represented by Vince Laurita ... In the mile relay, there is an all-round assemblage of two civilians, one V-12er, and one marine . . . Doc Handy has but four
lettermen in the group from the last contingent: John Yonaker, Don Lunder-gan, Frank Martin, and Bob Purcell . . . Fred Jones, John Lyons, Dave Murphy, and George Sullivan round out the freshman aggregation. With the cancellation of last week’s dual meet with Great
Lakes here, it left Doc Handy’s boys with nothing to do until they take-up with Michigan at Ann Arbor on the morrow . . . The following Saturday, they will make the jaunt to Champaign to participate in a triangular* among Illinois, Purdue, and Notre Dame . . . Last week’s meet was crossed off the
schedule at the request of the Great Lakes authorities . . . With their coach
and most of the prospective team personnel recently called to other sectors, it was found necessary to cancel the entire Bluejackets proposed schedule . . .
Nine teams now comprise the Irish grid card for ’44......No rematch has been scheduled with Great Lakes, Iowa Seahawks, or Michigan, all opponents’ for the past two years. . . . The old stand-bys, Northwestern, Illinois, Wisconsin, Army, Navy, and Georgia Tech are booked as usual, and also another match is billed for the smoky city with Pittsburgh. . . . The two newcomers are Dartmouth and Tulane, respectively called “The Big Green” and “The Green Wave”. . . . Now, if they live up to their titles and accordingly wear green jerseys, then there’s necessarily going to be a change made in one or the other’s outer apparel around game time.........
Ever since the successful green adorned venture against Stanford back in ’42, the gridders have abandoned the true school colors of Blue and Gold. Dartmouth employs a white garment at times for diversion, but Tulane is a strict ad-' diet to the Kelly color. • . . Hope the boys think to bring along different sets of identification just in case. . . . Johnny Moir, who scored 290 points in 22 games for an all-time Notre Dame cage mark, may have to cede honors to Leo Klier who has amassed 216 tallies in fifteen games so far this season, and five more contests are yet to be totalled. . . . Moir’s 1936-37 record netted him a 13.1 average, while Leo held a 14.1 mean thru and including the first Great Lakes fracas. . . . Two more Chicago Stadium appearances remain on tap as well as two home efforts, the former two being ■with Great Lakes and Camp Grant, and the latter two being Iowa and Detroit. . .
By Sunday, the campus ping pong kings -will have been crowned. . . . The Scholastic All-Campus Ping Pong Tourney goes into the finals commencing today. . . . The tourney has enjoyed success throughout its two-weeks of competitive play and the committee wishes to thank all the participants and those in charge of the Rec Hall who made this event possible. . . . This is but one of the many activities that the Scholastic hopes to sponsor in creating campuswide recreational interest. . . . The next event to come your -way will be the University Boxing Championships, better known to the old-timers as “The Bengal Bouts”. . . . This is the show of shows, and is being planned for the middle of April for those of you who return next semester, and also to the’ campus newcomers. . . . Give it some thought between terms, as there are a lot of nice “duke-handlers” on the campus who will get a chance at their type of sport. . . . Who knows but what there aren’t some potential new world, contenders on the lot. . . . So, fellows, mates, Macs, and etc., get those bodies in A-l shape to give and take! ! !
This is the final bit of copy to come from yours truly as a columnist. .. . I’ve tried to bring you a few odds and ends of the sports world where Notre Dame was concerned and otherwise. ... I sincerely hope you’ve liked it and will be back to serve you next semester, however, in another capacity. . . . Now,
brothers, hit those exams so you’ll be back too ! ! !
Tulane a New Addition .tothe 1944Schedule
Director of Athletics Frank Leahy announced early last week the signing of a two-year home-and-home football agreement with Tulane University of New Orleans. The first meeting of the Irish and the Green Wave will take place in the Notre Dame stadium on October 7 of this year, with the return engagement booked for New Orleans on November 24, 1945 in the Sugar Bowl (seating capacity about 72,000).
Coached by Monk Simon, the Southern school is a unit in the Navy V-12 collegiate program, and like Notre Dame will field a team that is almost completely composed of service material.
The addition of Tulane will bring to the schedule two Southern teams. Georgia Tech has been a Notre Dame opponent since 1922. The Engineers coached by popular Bill Alexander have toppled their Northern foes but two times in their fourteen attempts.
In their intersectional rivalry with teams below the Mason-Dixon line, the Irish have stepped away the victor 21 times of the 24 engagements. Tulane will-be the ninth southern school met by Notre Dame in the last thirty-one years. Others on the schedule in the past have -been the University of Texas, Southern Methodist, Rice, Baylor, Loyola of New Orleans and Arizona.
The addition of Tulane makes the ninth collegiate contest booked for 1944. The season will open at Pittsburgh on September 30. The other newcomer to the list, Dartmouth, will be played at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts. Contracts, carried on from other years, include Army, Navy, Northwestern, Illinois, Wisconsin and Georgia Tech.
BELIEVE IT OR—
Keep this to yourself around the house, but the failure of the girls to get their synthetic rubber girdles for the Easter Parade finds a devious path of blame back to Notre Dame. Shortage of neoprene, the duPont’s synthetic rubber developed from the late Father Nieuwland’s basic formulae, is given as the answer by the Office of the Rubber Director. Neoprene is used in elastic thread, and demands of the war department exceed the supply more than anticipated, hence no civilian release. Now, if Father Nieuwland’s process-had been developed sooner, and production was greater, etc.
21
Fighting Irish Down
Violets Before 18,000
By Tom Hynes
The Irish basketballers got back onto the winning road, in grand style last Monday night, when they defeated a highly favored New York University team in the Madison Square Garden, 59 to 53. The game marked the Irish tenth anniversary of their first appearance in the garden against the Violets. Notre Dame has won nine of the 11 games played in Manhattan. In “39” the Violets came west and were again taken in by the South Benders.
Notre Dame was behind 8 to 3 early in the game but Johnny Kelly put in five quick baskets to send them into the lead. At the half Notre Dame led 31 to 27. N. Y. U. never caught up to them from that time on.
Leo Klier picked up 20 points on Johnny Moir’s all-time Notre Dame record of 290 points. This brought his total to 236 points and if he can make an average of 12% points a game for the four games left he will go over the top. Leo’s points led the Irish attack. Kelly hit eight goals and two free shots before the gun sounded. N. Y. U’s Sid Tanen-baum, however, totaled 21 points to be the high scorer for the game. Another New York boy equaled a garden record when he put nine free throws through the nets. He was aided by Mark Todoro-vich, Bernie Rutledge, and Johnny Lujack who were put out via the foul route. This marks Rutledge’s eighth game that the officials have called one too many on him.
Mrs. Ruby Keogan, widow of the late Irish coach, presented the Irish with the George E. Keogan memorial trophy, offered by Ned Irish, garden president to the winner of the game.
Leo Klier was given a trophy by the C. Y. O. for the most outstanding player of the game. A vote of the newspapermen present determined the winner.
Summary:	.	.
Notre Dame (59) New York U (53)
	B	F	F	B	F	p
Klier, f	9	2	3	Goldstein, f 3	9	1
Kelly, f	8	2	0	Sarath, f . 3	- 1	1
Fierce,'!	1	0	i	■Wyman,- f	0'	0-	1
Sheehan, f	0	0	0	Millman, f 0	0	0
Todorovich, c	2	1	4	Walsh, c	2	0	3
Kivisto, c	5	0	1	Branca, c	0	0	1
Rutledge, g	1	0	4	Tanenhaum, g 9	3	1
Lujack, f	0	2	4	Derderian, g 2	2	2
Kaufman, g	0	0	1	O’Brien, g 0	0	0
Gilhoolej’, g	0	0	1			
Free throws missed: Klier (2), Todorovich (2), Lujack, Goldstein (2), Wyman, Walsh, - Tanen-haum.
St. Edward's Whips
Sorin for Championship
St. Ed’s Angels, the Overflow winners, captured the civilian championship of the campus by downing Sorin Hall, the Interhall League champions, 33 to 20 in an exciting game. St. Ed’s fast attack gave them an early lead which they managed to hold throughout the game.
They took a 9 to 6 lead at the end of the first period and led 16 to 12 at halftime. In the third quarter they stretched their lead to 25 to 18, and they outscored Sorin 8 to 6 in the last session. Voitke and Murray paced the winners with 13 and 8 points respectively while Gormley was high man for the losers.
The Sorin team will receive bronze medals as a reward for their fine playing. The winner of the game between St. Ed’s and Navy J last Wednesday received gold medals while the losers received silver awards. *
Summary:
St. Ed's Angels				Sorin Hall			
	B	F	T		B	F	T
Teske, rf	2	0	4	Gormley, 1g	3	0	6
Scalise, rf	3	0	6	Kent. 1g	0	0	0
Voitke. If	6	1	13	Hendrick, rg	1	0	2
Murray, c	4	0	8	Miller, rg	2	0	4
Mazza, rg	0	1	1	Thomas, c	1	3	5
Selakovich,	1g 0 3	1	1	Conaty, If	0	0	0
	— -		—	Warren, If	0	0	0
Totals '	15	3	33	McAndrews,rf	1	1	3
				Totals	8	4	20
—By Jim Regan
Company "J" Wins Service League Title
After trailing at the end of the first period, Navy “J” rallied to defeat Marine “A” in the finals of the Service Men’s Basketball League 34 to 21 in the old gym. Ellspermann and Smith paced the winners attack scoring 22 points between them.
The Marines jumped off to a 4 to 2 lead at the end of the first period but the Navy five rallied in the second quarter to take a 12 to 6 lead at half-time. In the third canto they increased their lead to 22 to 15 and turned on the heat in the last session to win by 13 points.
Summary:
Navy J	B	F T	Marine B F	A T
Bryant, rf	3	0	6	Dohraska, 1g 1	0	2
Ellspermann.lf 2		6 10	Nelson, lg 0	0	0
Davorak, If	0	0	0	-Busch; rg ■	0	0	0
Gallagher, c	2	0	4	Grannell, rg 0	0	0
Smith, rg	5	2 12	Spiker, c	2	1	5
Ryan, 1g -	-1	0	2	Stinson, c	12	4
	—	— —	Wares, If	2	0	4
Totals	13	8 34	Deist, If	1-0	2
			Moon, rf	10	2
			Vanlente, rf 1	0	2
- * -			— ■ ■ .	—
			Totals '	9	3	21
—By Jim Regan -
St. Ed's Rout Mustangs for Overflow Laurels
Taking an early lead and never relinquishing it, the St. Ed’s Angels routed the Mustangs 42 to 10 in the finals of the Overflow League. Scalise and Voitke provided the spark of the winners’ attack while the scoring for the losers was divided.
St. Ed’s gained the final round with a 36 to 25 win over the stubborn LaRaza quintet. The Mustangs reached the finals by scoring a mild upset over the Intellectuals 39 to 18. By virtue of their win the Angels assured themselves of at least bronze medals.
Summary:
St. Ed's Angels
	B	F	T
Mazza, rf	2	1	5
Scalise, If	S	1	17
Murray, c	0	0	0
Voitke. rg	5	1	11
Teske, rg	3	0	6
Selakovich,	Ig 1	1	3
Totals 19	4 42
.	Mustangs '
B F T
Lackey, lg 10	2
O’Neil, rg 2	0	4
McCarthy, c 0	1	1
Masterson, If 0	1	1
Flaherty, rf 0	2	2
Totals 3	4	10
—By Jim Regan
KRAUSEMEN CLOSE SEASON (Continued from page 19)
ner. Danner is leading the conference with 157 points in nine games while Ives is only one point behind. Both are freshmen, and Danner is an all around athlete playing end on the football team and being a ranking tennis. player in his home district. Against Chicago U. Ives scored 43 points breaking two Western Conference records, while Dave Danner dropped in 32 as Iowa drubbed the Maroons 103 to 31, a conference record for a single game.
The Universty of Detroit will visit the Irish campus on March 1, and will meet the Irish in the final home game of the current season. Not much is known of the “red and white” sporting “Titans” for they are playing a limited schedule. They have an. army training unit at the school but army regulations do not allow trainees to participate in athletics, so the Titans have had to get along on what material they can find among the civilian students. This game seems at the time to be the only breather among the four games remaining.
In the-final, game of the season the Warriors of Camp Grant will be met in the Chicago Stadium on March 3. This will be like old home coming week, for two of the stars on the warriors squad had their college baptism of fire while wearing the Blue and Gold. Johnny Nie-miera and Bill Davis are the two boys ’ who once performed for Irish fans, and who were two of the main cogs on what
22
has been called by many the greatest quintet in Irish court history. Niemiera was a tireless forward for the Keogan-men and one of the most active floor men in the collegiate ranks, while the strong arm tactics of Burly Bill Davis were effective defensive measures against even the most potent scorers. Early this week in the Warrior’s 22nd win in 25 starts Niemiera tallied 17 points for the victors. The Rockford base roster sparkles with familiar college and professional hardwood names outstanding of which is that of Mickey Rottner, exLoyola of Chicago ace.
TRACK MEET
(Continued from page 19) meets is uncertain. He has whipped all challengers for two campaigns.
John Yonakor of Notre Dame is a heavy favorite in the shot put. Last week in practice, mighty John snapped out the 16 pound ball 51 feet, 7 inches. He has yet to realize his potentialities. Fellow footballer, Freshman George Sullivan should chalk up three points for second place in this event.
Sky climber Phil Anderson of the Irish will match leaps with Michigan’s Don Segula in another likely record setter. Segula soared 13 feet, 3 in. against WM, while Anderson hit the 13 foot mark against his old teammates at Marquette.
Buster Hogue is relied upon for valuable points in both the high and broad jumps. Hogue is undefeated in his specialties this season, but the Wolverines boast a pair of jumpers who have also cleared well over six feet. The ND mile relay team of Fred Jones, Hank McCarthy, Bob Purcell and Ralph Pohland, that turned a second place time of 3:27 at the Madison Square Garden in the Millrose Meet, will be pushed by Michigan that has already footed to a 3:30 trial on their own fiieldhouse track. '
Other standouts wearing the big “M” will be hurdlers Elmer Swanson and Fred Low, and sprinters Don Blanchard and Bud Nussbaumer, fleet halfback on Fritz Crisler’s eleven. Second grid star to don spikes will be center Fred Negus, ex-Wisconsin hearty, who runs a quarter on the mile relay quartet. Al Pierce and Pete Detwiler are powerful 440 yarders, while Bob Gardner and Glenn Dale are potential scorers in either the shot or high jump.	.
Michigan will be a heavy pre-meet favorite to swamp a Notre Dame squad that does not boast the balance that caused it to be dreaded in the past. The meet, however, should provide some spectacular personal duels which may find their mark in the record books.
MARINE MURMURS (From p. 7)
Scuttlebutt of the Week:
Physics exams. To be moved up to Wednesday, Feb. 23.
Pvt. G. B. Futtled, V-12 USMCR (Continued from Last Week)
A cool avenue surrounded by portly trees camouflaging the lazy clouds above confronted Pvt. Geezmo B. Futtled and his companions, Hayseed and Plowjockey, as they entered the gates of St. Mary’s for the usual Sunday afternoon tea-dances. The first chills of autumn had descended upon the green of the trees changing them to the traditional rustic brown which blended with the brick brown buildings of the Rock ahead. The birds were busy at their afternoon chats, sounding many notes mellowed and carried by a southwest wind. Mo thought about a patch of wood back home at the far end of the south pasture.
Then out of the south sounded the throaty cadence of an approaching freight train. Soon it passed a few hundred feet ahead exhaling clouds of sooty smoke which left Mo and his buddies coughing vigorously and raising havoc with their lux facials. After removing the soot from their faces and brushing it around on their uniforms, Geezmo debated with Hayseed and Plowjockey just which school was on the wrong side of the tracks, Notre Dame or St. Mary’s.
In due time the end of the avenue was reached and before them lay the lake, the pride and joy of the Rock. Pvt. Futtled, a rather lazy cuss, sprang without much effort to the isle in the middle, scrutinized the shallow water surrounding him, and stepped ashore, saving himself the very few steps required to circumambulate it.
At the door a nice enough girl badgered them inside, picked up a phone and questioned them as to whom they wished to see. Hayseed stammered that they just wanted to look around and led the procession of three down the long, quiet hall terminating at a small dance floor echoing with platter music.
Mo saw a babe wih a gleam in her eye who looked like she had class. Well, he had always wanted to meet one of those high “faintin’ ” city gals. He sauntered cautiously up to her and asked in his best manner, “Would you like to dance?”
“Sure kid, any time,” was the reply, in Brooklyn style. He began his usual routine, walk, slide, walk. When they had rounded the floor for the nth time, Mo wanted to get some of the tea the dance was supposed to be accompanied by. He inquired. The girl looked at Mo in blank amazement.
“Tea, Bub, you must be wacky. There ain’t no tea at this shindig. You can buy me a coke though.”
Mo was deflated, utterly, completely let down. No tea, that took the cake. All these panelled walls. Just a big front for false atmosphere. — Hoodwinked a fellow into coming over — then no tea.
Hayseed and Plowjockey had discarded their baggage as sad cases and were bidding for Geezmo’s attention at the door. Mo left the gracious campus never to return again. Yessir. He knew which side of the tracks was the best now. Appearances fooled a fellow sometimes.
100 Marines Eligible to Become Navy Deck Officers
By lohn Knutson
■Last Tuesday noon the one hundred marines who had completed six or more semesters and had not been ordered to Parris Island were given the opportunity to volunteer for a transfer to Navy desk officers school. The men could thus get ensign commissions several months earlier than if they remained in the marine V-12 program, and tried for a second lieutenancy.
This is part of the Navy’s nation-wide program to get more officers. The men who volunteer will probably have to go to a pre-midshipmen school for a short period before they enter midshipmen school.
There are 186 seniors in the marine detachment. Approximately 86, who will go to Parris Island, had their names posted on the bulletin boards. The remaining hundred men are eligible for the transfer.
■ STAFF SKETCHES
(Continued from page 18)
friendly sneer, his friends frequent his premises; but for a little help in Physics problems, they knowingly search elsewhere.
Advertising Manager	'
Marguerite Varga.... Maggie.... advertising manager, holds court in the Main Building.... good shot with paper clips, she can clean out the office in a hurry.... has withstood three semesters of work and still looks healthy.
Little woman with a big job, she spends every Monday haggling the advertisers for more copy.... other important duties include reconciling Ave Maria printers after Scholastic editors mess up the works... with her personality anything is possible.
. (Continued on page 31)
23
Marine John Archer Cops Two Wrestling Crowns
John Archer, a Marine trainee, by winning both the 175 pound championship and the heavyweight division, accomplished a rare feat in the interhall wrestling competition. After downing his opponent in the lighter weight class Archer surprised the officials and fans by winning the heavyweight class by decision.
In the 155 pound class Russ Skovgard pinned W. King in one minute, four seconds to annex the title. Three contestants entered the 165 pound event and Richard Stasiewicz emerged victorious. He defeated Robert Watson on decision in his first match and won the final match when Duane Hunt was forced to withdraw in the third period.
Archer was impressive in his doublewin. In the 175 pound division he defeated John Hughes in one minute, nine seconds. Ed Mieszkowski was overcome by decision in the finals of the heavyweight event as Archer displayed fine wrestling form. All the winners will receive interhall medals.
—By Jim Regan
N. R. O. T. C Topples
Bendix and Laporte Teams
The N.R.O.T.C. basketball team prepared for its final lap of competition by romping to two easy victories last week when the Irish cadets dropped the Bendix Products team 49-28, Tuesday, Feb. 8 and overwhelmed the Laporte Metals 69-33 the following evening. The two triumphs pushed the Notre Dame team’s record to 10 wins in 13 contests. With two more frays remaining on the docket.
Thursday, Feb. 17, the Walsh Hall squad will tangle with the Mishawaka Ball-Band team, current leaders of the South Bend Class A Municipal league and on Saturday the Brothers of Dujarie seminary will be met in a return game. The NROTC holds a 31-23 decision from early December over the Brothers.
Harry Gilligan and Walt LaBerge tied for top scoring honors in the Bendix game with 12 points apiece. One bucket behind was Al Wade who accounted for 10 points. The Bendix team never threatened as the Irish cadets raced to a 22-9 half-time lead and reserves played the greater part of the game.
The NROTC set a new scoring record against the LaPorte Metals as each player racked up at least six points. Tony Earley was the top scorer with 12 points but Gilligan and Wade followed closely with 10 points each. Wade’s first buckets sent his season’s record to 141 for 12 gamesj while Gilligan’s total was boosted to 117.
i .
INTRODUCING (Continued from page 20)
DON LUNDERGAN
Each day in the fieldhouse, a potential champ may be seen trotting about the dirt track, yet to a campus newcomer his face is unfamiliar as an Irish athlete. Nevertheless, Don Lundergan, though sidelined for the present with a pulled muscle, lives in anticipation of next semester. Don, a monogram winner, competed under the Irish banner with the 1943 undefeated Irish aggregation. He teamed with Austin Jones, Dick Tupta, and Gene Fehlig to establish the fastest indoor time for the mile relay, as the quartet chalked up victories in the Chicago Relays and Central Collegiate Meet.
Lundergan spent his high school days at Akron, Ohio, where he played basketball and ran the quarter mile. He won a monogram for his hardwood activity and three for track. Second place in the State quarter mile topped off his prep achievements and the family moved to Verona, N. J. Don, however, almost immediately returned to the West and Notre Dame, to follow in the footsteps of his father who played tackle under the Rockne regime. It is perhaps a strange quirk of.fate that his Dad attended Notre Dame when the United States entered World War I and he enlisted in the Army, yet with the outbreak of World War II Don chose to enter the Navy and enlisted in V-l. Transferred to V-12 in July, Lundergan is a Junior Engineer who has hopes of gaining a commission by Christmas.
Don regrets that his favorite hobby is calling demerits but marvels at the willingness of the chiefs to oblige. As for music, he favors the semi-classical, his conception of semi-classical being “Shoo Shoo Baby” as played by Spike Jones and his City Slickers.
YOU CAN’T LOSE
YOU CARRY TRAVELERS CHEQUES!
That’s right! Because if your American Express Travelers Cheques are lost, stolen, or destroyed uncountersigned, American Express will promptly refund your loss. These Cheques are handy to carry, the size of a dollar bill and are readily spendable anywhere.	_
American Express Travelers Cheques are issued in denominations of $10, $20, $50 and $100. The cost is % of 1% (75ff on each $100 purchased), minimum 40jf. For sale at Banks, and Railway Express offices.
AMERICAN EXPRESS
—TRAVELERS CHEQUES—
Furloughs Only for Trainees
Returning Next Semester
All trainees who will return to Notre Dame next semester will get furloughs at the end of this semester. The furlough will extend after- their last exam until 0800 on Sunday, March 5, at which time they will register for the next semester.
The seniors who are going to Parris Island or midshipmen school, the engineers who are being transferred, and the men who expect to go to San Diego or to Great Lakes will not get a furlough after their last exam. They may be given a 72-hour shore leave if time permits.
Capt. Finney, acting executive officer, warns all men to allow themselves sufficient traveling time in order to be back by 0800 on March 5th. A late train will not be a valid excuse for returning late.
—John Knutson
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
Dr. E. J. Cain
OPTOMETRIST
Prompt Lens or Frame Repair service in our'own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251

By Lieut. S. L. Beatty
1.	Next Qualifying Test for Civilians interested in V-12: March 15, 1944, is the date announced by the Army and the Navy for the A-12 and V-12 Qualifying Test for Civilians, the test to be given in all high schools and colleges in the nation. This is the aptitude test preceding enlistment, and is the only way a civilian may enlist in V-12 directly. Men who enlist in V-5, Aviation, are usually ordered to report for their first training duty at a V-12 College for two semesters before being sent to a preflight school.
At Notre Dame civilians interested in the qualifying test should see Father Trahey. Advance information may be procured by an interested person by writing to the U. S. Bureau of Education, Washington, D. C., requesting a copy of the pamphlet entitled “The Qualifying Test for Civilians.”
2.	Apprentice Seamen, V-12, selected for transfer to “avcad,” V-5, Naval Aviation Cadet, and Apprentice Seamen, V-12 (a), Aviation, completing their second semester' in Navy V-12 Units shall be transferred to Class V-5 regardless of whether or not they are academic failures at the end of the semester. All such Apprentice Seamen, V-12 and V-12 (a) who are academic failures at the time of transfer to Class V-5 will be transferred to Naval Air Stations for Tarmac duty in accordance with Naval Flight Preparatory Schools and Tarmac assignment schedules to be issued by the Bureau of Navy Personnel three weeks prior to the close of each semester. Academic failures will be held on Tarmac duty (ground school maintenance training) in probationary status, subject to transfer to the nearest Naval Training Station (Bainbridge, Md., Great Lakes, Ill., .or San Diego, Calif.), for reclassification, at any time after the first two months of the probationary period, if their Commanding Officer considers them to be unsuitable aviation cadet material. They will not be entered into the Naval flight program until after their successful Class V-12(a) classmates have been so entered.
Instructions covering this disposition of Apprentice Seamen, V-12 (a) who successfully complete their second semester in Navy V-12 Units, will be issued by the Bureau of Naval Personnel three weeks prior to the close of each semester.
3.	Apprentice Seamen, Class V-12(a), who fail academically at V-12 Units in
Officially appointed Ship’s Tailor for U. S. N. R.
Midshipmen School, Notre Dame.
Room 148
Morrissey Hall
Naval SJtvp
Custom Tailored
Officers1 Uniforms
There is no substitute for fine custom tailored uniforms—they fit and look better.
Custom tailored uniforms are a tradition which has held through the decades with Naval Officers.
The Service knows the importance of impeccable appearance. All uniforms — blue, white and greys — are measured, cut and tailored
to your individ- Ye Jolly Little
.	.	Tailor
ual proportions
by expert craftsmen in our own work rooms.
117 West LaSalle Ave.
Phone 4-0220
Across from Hoffman and LaSalle Hotels
25
their first semester of V-12 training will be transferred in their present rate and classification to the nearest Naval Training Station (Great Lakes) for reclassification, with the recommendation that they be considered for assignment in Aeronautic’ Organization.
The information given in (2) and (3) is in answer to many men’s requests, and is especially important in re-enforcing the advice previously given V-5 and V-12 (a) men to do their best to meet all academic requirements of their two semesters in V-12. Their study of plane trigonometry is basic to their doing well in the study of aerial navigation at their later flight training, and the study of physics and mathematics will aid them in their study of meteorology later in the program.
4.	Orders for eighty V-12 Seamen who have finished their allotted terms: Their orders have arrived, transferring eighty men to the four schools named below. Two are the Naval Reserve Midshipmen’s Schools at Columbia University, New York, and at Plattsburg, New York. Several supply corps candidates ' are being ordered to Harvard University. Many are being ordered to the new Pre-Midshipmen’s school at Asbury Park, New Jersey, which was described in a recent article in the New York Times: “The Berkeley-Carteret and
Monterey Hotels at Asbury Park, N. J., which for more than a year have been used as receiving barracks for British seamen, will be converted into a United States Navy Pre-Midshipman School early in March. By the end of February the British occupants, who renamed the hotel barracks the H.M.S. Asbtury, all will have departed, it was said. Approximately 3,000 Navy reservists will be registered in the school to be established.” After considerable indoctrination, drill, tours to Navy yards and ordnance plants, trainees ot the Pre-Midshipman School, if found qualified, will be ordered to Midshipman School when openings occur in the quotas of various schools. A new midshipman school is being opened this March at Cornell University. For civil engineers there is a Naval Construction Training Center, Camp Peary, Williamsburg, Virginia. There is an engineering unit also at Columbia University.
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE WINTER SEMESTER (Continued from Page 15)
been the case during the July-October semester.
On November 25, Capt. Barry administered the oath to 296 members of Notre Dame’s fifth class of specialists who received their commissions. They
were soon replaced by a new class of 400 V-7 men.
The holiday situation during the semester, as all home-loving students will recall, was limited to the Christmas weekend. No breathing time was furnished at Thanksgiving or New Year’s.
Although Notre Dame rooters were saddened by the surprising loss to a fighting Great Lakes team, they were soon consoled by the selection of the Irish as the National Gridiron Champions by the country’s most severe critics, the Football Writers of America. Marine Angelo Bertelli was awarded the Heisman Trophy as the outstanding college football player of the year. With the publication of All-American teams in newspapers throughout the nation, Notre Dame was represented by any or all of five gridders: Bertelli, Miller, White, Filley, and Yonakor.
In honor of the aggregation which had carried the praise of critics once again to the Irish campus, the Scholastic published a special football issue on December 10, which told the complete story of the grid campaign. All Notre Dame joined in thanking Frank W. Leahy, director of athletics and head football coach, for his excellent job.
In the dining hall a change was made

Parker -Winterrowd
11N. Main Street (Upstairs)
Offers future Officers at Notre Dame the Finest Custom ’Tailored Uniforms
All Garments Tailored to Your Measurements in Our Own Fitting Rooms
South Bend's Oldest Custom Tailors
26
during the last four months with the appointment of D. C. Ford, formerly of Swift and Co., as the successor of Eugene Connolly, manager of the University dining halls since 1932.
One of the outstanding social functions on the campus was the V-12 ball, featuring Johnny Long and his Orchestra, given in the navy drill hall January 15. At the reception line were Capt. Barry and Lieut.-Comdr. and Mrs. Pierson.
Also on January 15, leaders and alumni of the University commemorated the 100th anniversary of the granting of a charter to the University by the state of Indiana at a luncheon in Indianapolis. Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., represented the University at the meeting, which was attended by high church and state officials.
Highlight among the civilian social activities during the present semester was the Knights of Columbus ball which was staged at the Indiana Club on February 4; Will Back and his orchestra from the Paradise Ball Room in Chicago furnished the music for the function.
The fourth Naval R.O.T.C. ball was held at the Palais Royale on February
11 with music by Buddy Franklin and his 18-piece orchestra.
Leaving the campus during the last month of the semester were 1,170 midshipmen who received their commissions as ensigns in the United States naval reserve. It was the fourth class to be graduated from the Midshipmen School at the University.
The Notre Dame Savoyards and their director, Cecil Birder, presented the long awaited Gilbert and Sullivan operetta, Ruddigore, for four performances beginning February 9. No effort was spared in making the production a successful one.
From the speech department came the announcement a week ago that Pvt. John Lynch of the Marine Corps had won the annual Breen Medal Oratorical contest in Washington Hall. He spoke on the subject, “Post-War Rehabilitation.”
The navy had another important change in the personnel of its officers as the semester moved to a close. Lieut.-Comdr. Pierson received orders to transfer to active duty with the fleet at sea. Temporarily assuming his position as executive officer of the V-12 unit was Capt. John W. Finney of the Marine Corps.
Six gold stars were added to the service flag in Sacred’Heart Church commemorating the Notre Dame war dead who had fallen during the semester.
Officer's Pa k—$18.75
Convenient, easy to pack, handy to carry. In khaki or blue.
★	Billfolds
*	Gloves
*	Purses • ’
*	Leather Picture Frames
■ ★ Leather Luggage
* Wallets
HansZ-Rintzsch etkcp. ’
Michigan and Colfax At a Notre Dame Bus Stop
--- ■
Have a “Coke”=A thousand miles is not too far to come
high-si’grr
“Coke” x Coca-Cola It’s natural for popular names to acquire friendly abbreviations. That’s why you hear Coca-Cola called ‘Coke”.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF SOUTH BEND
... or being friendly with a Chinese cadet
Chinese flyers here in America for training have found that so simple a phrase as Have a “Coke” speaks friendship in any tongue. East, west, north, south, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes,—bas become the happy bond between people of good will.

27
KNOW YOUR NAVY (Continued from Page 9)
nonade, contrasted with the signal victories of the Merrimac over unarmored ships on the previous day, that made the affair a land-mark in the, story of the warship. They were not the first iron-clads or even the first to be used in battle. Neither was capable of cruising at sea, and neither, had it been successful against the other, could have altered greatly the course of events. But it was the first conflict in which ironclad fought ironclad, and on that occasion, ordnance failed against armor.
We shall pause at this point to consider how warships had been revolutionized during the period 1840-1865. So sudden and so great was the change that it has been aptly said that a sailor of the Invincible Armada of 1588 would have been more at home on a frigate in 1840 than a sailor of 1840 would have been on the new fangled ships that were emerging at the end of the Civil War.
The changes may be summarized as follows:
(1)	Muzzle loading smooth bores were being replaced by breach loading rifled guns.
(2)	Solid shot was being replaced by shells.
(3)	Wooden sides were being replaced by ironclads.
(4)	Sail was being replaced by steam.
"When the Civil War ended, the United States had the strongest Navy in the world. During the next twenty years, the shadow of neglect well nigh obliterated the once powerful Navy, as it gradually rotted away in the Navy yards.
Despite the fact that the Civil War had demonstrated the advantages of steam propulsion, “the moment the war was over the Navy went back to canvas.” This seems incredible. But that was not all. We turned our backs to the revolution that was taking place in ordnance, armor, and naval architecture, to which we have already referred. Furthermore, the old ironclads were allowed to deteriorate and, in 1872, several vessels of the old wooden obsolete type were ordered. The public was convinced that we had fought our last war and Congressional apathy prevailed.
The Navy readied its low point in 1881 when Garfield came to the Presidency. Indeed, that date marks the lowest in our history. What was more disturbing, several South American republics had been acquiring warships, any one of which, single-handed, could probably have destroyed our entire Navy.
While 1881 represents the lowest ebb in the American Navy, it also marks the turning of the tide. The rebirth of
28
the Navy, the “New Navy,” was under way in the early eighties. In 1883, four protected steel cruisers, the “White Squadron,” were authorized and became the vanguard. Many ships, particularly cruisers, were laid down before 1890. This enormous expansion, after years of neglect, was carried out in spite of almost a total lack of shipbuilding material and equipment. Congress had specified that only American products could be used in the construction of the so-called “New Navy.” There were no mills in this country capable of producing the steel plates required for the new ships and this demand gave birth to our huge American steel industry. The rapid construction of the “New Navy” stands out as one of the truly great achievements of the Service.
REMEMBER JOE COLLEGE?
There’ve been some changes made since this guy graced a grandstand—but Arrows are still top favorites for shirts!
Arrow Shirts have the incomparable Arrow collar which lies smooth and comfortably on your neck, the Mitoga figure-fit construction, and the Sanforized label guaranteeing fabric shrinkage less than 1%. In khaki, white, and fancy. S2.24, up.
See your Arrow dealer today!
SHIRTS • TIES • HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR • SPORT SHIRTS ★ BUY WAR BONDS AND STAMPS ★
W&un-up OlotlujUf
PANTS SHIRTS N. D. BLANKETS
Sonneborn's Sport Shop 121 West Colfax Avenue South Bend, Ind.
THE COLLEGE PARADE
(Continued from page 4)
THE UNDYING HOPE
A harassed attache of the American consulate at Lisbon tells the story of a gray-faced little man who leaned over his desk one morning and anxiously inquired: “Can’t you tell me if there is any possibility that I could get entrance to your wonderful country?”
The attache, pressed by such requests and haggard by sleepless nights, roughly replied: “Impossible now. Come back in another ten years.”
The little refugee moved toward the door, stopped, turned and, with a wan smile, asked: “Morning or afternoon?”
—The Plainsman
LOOSE ENDS
Times must be getting tough indeed, for gabby Herr Goebbels, who has a complete Nazi radio network at his disposal and no suitable script material.
—The X-Ray
According to a Washington rumor, a Western Union messenger entered the vast new War Department Building on Friday morning. He emerged on Monday as a Lieutenant Colonel.
—The Plainsman
❖
SIMILES
Blue eyes gaze at mine . . . vexation.
Soft hands clasped in mine . . . palpitation.
Fair hair brushing mine . . . expectation.
Red lips close to mine . . . temptation.
Footsteps . . . damnation!
—The Clarion
THE LET DOWN
The moon had been shining a few moments ago, but now there was pouring from the heavens, cats, dogs, pitchforks, hoes, rakes, Sears Roebuck catalogs, and some rain. Our ardent young lover was caught at his “one and only’s” house, without an umbrella (as though an umbrella would be of use against the elements on a night like this). His sweet young thing heaved and sighed, “Darling, I can’t let you go home on a night .like this; you’ll catch your death of cold. I’ll ask mother to fix the guest room.” The lad was all thanks as the beauty disappeared into another room in search of her parents.
A few minutes later the young girl
at
The LaSalle Dining Room in the LASALLE HOTEL	|
Enjoy dinner music every night except Tuesday and Friday	=
from 7:00 p. m. on.	=.
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiitiiniiiiiimiiiniii|aj
JOSIE and JIM'S
JUNNY ITALY CALE
NOTHING CAN TAKE ITS PLACE
. SUNNY ITALY 601 N. NILES PHONE 3-0678
A TRADITION AT NOTRE DAME
SERVICE MEN: Malte This Your First Stop on That Night Off!
19 Trains Daily to CHICAGO
First two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 A. M. and 6:50 A. M. Beginning at 7:30 A. M. and until 9:30 P. M. there is a train every hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 P. M. and 12:00 Midnight. Hourly service from Chicago, too. For travel information call C. W. Veach, Ticket Office, 301 N. Michigan St., Phone 3-3111.
CHICAGO SOUTH SHORE & SO. BEND R. R.
SOUftSRE
29
came back to find her lover’s favorite chair empty. She called his name several times and, receiving no answer, was about to call out the state militia, for a night like this was enough to frighten anyone, when a timid tapping suddenly sounded on the front door. She cautiously opened it and peered outside to find our young hero soaking wet and drenched, with a small package under his arm.
“Where have you been?”
“Who? Me?” he said. “Oh, I just went home for my pajamas.”
—The Urchin
STUDENT FAILS TO
GET AN OKAY
The Daily Kansan tehs us that a student at the University of North Carolina was suspended indefinitely from school and flunked in his physics course because of his failure to get his instructor’s okay on his laboratory experiment before leaving the laboratory. We believe this student should be officially awarded the Green Banana of the year —he earned it.
THE NAVY TRADITION
Little Boy: “My father is a big shot in the army. He has an oak leaf on his shoulder.”
Little Girl: “That’s nothing. My dad’s in the navy and he has Four Roses on his hip.”
—Student Life
FACTS—FROM HERE
AND THERE
Teachers of Japanese in colleges and universities throughout the country met recently at the University of Michigan to compare notes on latest methods and techniques. Back stabbing undoubtedly replaced back slapping at this little get-together.
William Werstler, Jr., rode horseback more than 1000 miles from his father’s ranch at Walden, Colo., to the University of Illinois! Undoubtedly, he stood in all his classes throughout the semester.
SO—
We close the current semester chillun, as we entered it, badly. We hope that you enjoy your ten-day leave, and we’ll he seeing you in the Blackhawk.
—the Murph
End of an Enemy
In a split second this enemy plane will be blasted from the skies by a shell from one of our antiaircraft guns on the ground.
How can a gun hit a plane going 300 miles an hour 20,000 feet up . - .when it takes the shell 5 there and in that time the plane has gone more than a mile? Besides, the shell curves in its flight. Wind blows it. Gravity pulls on it. Even the weather affects its velocity.
an electrical
seconds to get up
The answer is the Gun Director brain which aims the guns. Swiftly it plots th plane’s height and course. Instantly it solves the complex mathematical problem continuously matching the curved path of the shell to that of rhe plane so the two will meet. It even times th fuse to explode the sheU at the exact instant.
The electrical Gun Director has greatly increase the deadliness of anti-aircraft gunfire. In its development at Bell Telephone Laboratories and its production at Western Electric, college trained men and women have played important parts.
Buy War Bonds regularly—all you can!
EU SYSTEM. equipment.
30
Glasses Correctly Fitted
Est.
1900
J. BURKE
W. G. BOGARDUS E. C. BEERY Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians 228 S. MICHIGAN ST. Evenings by Appointment
CAMPUS CENTENARY PUBLICATIONS
ooo
NOTRE DAME—100 YEARS___S4.00
COLLECTED POEMS OF CHARLES L. O'DONNELL___$2.50
ooo
At the Bookstore
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
LEONARD A. ROSE. D.D.S.
CYRIL F. ROSE, D.D.S.
PETER J. ROSE, D.D.S.
623-629 Sherland Bldg.	South Beni, Ind.
DR. O. J. GRUNDY
Registered Podiatrist FOOT AILMENTS
406-408 Tower Building
Phone 3-2574
DR. ROBERT F. LUCAS
GENERAL DENTISTRY X-Rays and Consultation
Diseases and Surgery of Mouth and Jaws
Tel. 4-5661	702 J. M. S. Bldg., South Bend, Ind.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER
DENTISTS
503 Sherland Building
Phone 3-1254
South Bend, Indiana
SOUTH BEND X-RAY LABORATORY
825 Sherland Building
L. E. Fisher, M.D.	M. J. Thornton, M.D.
STAFF SKETCHES (Cont. from page 23)
Circulation Manager
John Mattmiller . . . 22 . . . one of two Marines on staff . . . circulation manager . . . born in Lewiston, Idaho . . . came to Notre Dame by way of the University of Idaho . . . served last semester as Scholastic circulation manager . . . well qualified for job . . . worked on advertising staff of Idaho year book, Gems of Mountains . . . business manager of Idaho Argonaut, the university bi-weekly . . . has been very active in V-12 activities at N.D. . . . serves on the V-12 executive committee . . . was on dance committee . . . one of main cogs in re-organization of Scholastic.
Did not participate in college athletics, but was a four-letter man at Peck high school at Lewiston, Idaho . . . active in extra-curricular activity while there . . . played Leo in “The Little Foxes” . . . biggest thrill at Notre Dame was first Irish football game . . . the tall, dark, and handsome A. T. O. is very athletic . . . holds record of 2 minutes and 50 seconds for N.D. obstacle course . . . favorite sport is swimming . . . pet dislikes are Idaho potatoes a la N.D. and survey physics.
John is planning to become an ensign in the Navy. . . . He has been in the Marine Corps Reserve since March 1942 . . . but immediate action is what he craves . . . thus the switch from marine green to navy blue. . . . When not restricted on weekends ... he spends his time at the Elks Club on Saturday and the D.A.V. on Sunday . . . ambition after war is to become “big time” advertising executive.
Staff Photographer
Alfred John Schaefer . . . quiet, competent staff photographer- . . . born on New York’s Long Island . . . now lives in Stroudsburg, Pa. .’ . . chem. engineer with 80 average . . . ex-ERC, IC discharge ... in for two and a half months, including a month at station hospital. . . .
Hails from Amityville grammar and high school, Amityville, L.I., photographer on Echo, school weekly . . . graduated with 90 average, fourth highest in class . . . worked on Dome as photographer . . . liked sideline passes to games . . . favorite shot is one of Clatt coming out of end zone in ’42 Seahawk game . . . published in last Dome . . . has staff of two, Tex Renaud and Joe Haller. . . .
Pet gripe about Notre Dame is food, but otherwise a fine place . . . would like to go on for master’s degree at M.I.T. if he doesn’t get married first to redhead from Chicago. . . . Has been over to St. Mary’s only three times. . . . Says to draw your own conclusions.
THE GREEN BANNER (Continued from page 8)
for the “Rock” it isn’t because he is interested in the James “boys.”
After meeting Tom McGaughey’s guest at the “Semi-Formal,” we turned to a bystander and began to grow gay and to compliment Walgreen’s soda clerk for his marvellous “cokes.” Then someone had to spoil everything by explaining-that there were “twins” at the affair.
Amazing, perfectly amazing, how much Dick Murphy haunts the campus! Obviously the “home” type, isn’t he? Has absolutely no interest in the local scene. Is a perfect stranger to St. Mary’s, this year, and to Hook’s “corner.” Friend in St. Louis, please note. (Paid Adv.).
The arrival of' the V-7 contingent on campus reveals many familiar faces, even “characters,” thus making it possible for other V-7 men, total strangers to South Bend to move about the hamlet with the greatest of ease.
Frank Kent, Sorin nature student, reports a serious setback in his activities because of weather conditions. His most recent statement to the press; “So long as the temperature hovers at zero, the promise of warm weather will probably be delayed.” Thanks, Frank. Your daringprognostications are uncanny.
HOLD THAT HAIRLINE!
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL. SUCCESS DEPEND ON YOUTHFUL. VIGOROUS APPEARANCE. LET OUR TRAINED GRADUATES EXAMINE YOUR HAIR AND SCALP. .. TREAT THE REAL CAUSE OF RECEDING HAIRLINE.
FREE EXAMINATION. TREATMENTS $!.OO.
Phone 4-1481
HARPER METHOD MEN'S SHOP
BUY WITH CONFIDENCE at South Bend’s Leading Jeweler
A wide selection of Desirable Gifts on display.
Use our lay-away plan.
.—^3
she knows I’m choosey
... and so are all Chesterfield smokers. They’ve caught on to the Milder Better-Tasting cigarette that really Satisfies ... and nothing else will do.
They expect more smoking pleasure, and Chesterfield gives it to them every time ... yes, every time, with the Right Combination of the world's best cigarette tobaccos.
CHESTERFIELD