How’s your
FOOTBALL
PSYCHOLOGY?
"THEY DIDN’T NEED COACHING” by Dick Harlow
YOU’RE the new football coach. Your new team is terrible. The student body is indifferent as a clam. Player after player drops out of spring practice. Head Coach Dick Harlow tells how he shook Harvard out of its famed “indifference”... insulted Torby Macdonald into a 78-yard sprint for a touchdown ... built a team around a man who broke his leg!
In this week’s Post Harlow lets you in on some of the psychological gags that worked on the Crimson —and some that backfired. Buy the Post this week.
i -r 1
15 OTHER FEATURES: PAUL GALUCO-ALVA JOHNSTON-MARY ROBERTS RINEHART MYSTERY—LIFE OF WILL ROGERS-NEW AMAZON JUNGLE NOVEL STARTING THIS WEEK—CARTOONS—STORIES-ALL IN THE POST.
THE SUTUPflAY EVENING POST
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
3
COLLEGE PARADE
— RAYMOND J. KELLY —  —
On the political front
The Swathmore Student Union recently withdrew from the ASU. In the resolution, printed in the Swathmore Phoenix, the organization stated “that those aims which we desire — civil liberties for all, greater economic and political democracy, peace, and academic freedom — can no longer be achieved through the American Student Union.” Specifically, the ASU was condemned for disapproving of the candidates of the two major parties without suggesting a third choice, for continuing a policy of isolationism and opposition to conscription in the -face of the present international situation, for failing to condemn Russia for the invasion of Finland, and for issuing unsuitable and unscholarly literature, even on issues with which the Swathmore group agreed.
❖
And no Oriole!
The Merciad of Mercyhurst College, Erie, Pa., evidently was trying to encourage the students when recently it published a few of the rules of Mt. Holyoke College as promulgated in 1837:
“No young lady shall become a member of Mt. Holyoke Seminary who cannot kindle a fire, wash potatoes, repeat the multiplication tables, and at least two-thirds of the shorter catechism. . . .
Every member of the school shall walk a mile a day unless a freshet, earthquake or some other calamity prevent. . .
No young lady shall devote more than an hour a day to miscellaneous reading.
No young lady is expected to have gentlemen acquaintances unless they are returned missionaries or agents of benevolent societies.”
❖
Milestones on the Pathway of Progress
It seems that an old Kentuckian had eight sons who had been raised as true gun-totin’, still-workin’, feudin’ Democrats. Eventually these sons reached the period when all young men go to work or to college.
Naturally they went to college and amid hems and haws and coughings and snortings finally became freshmen. Eight years later, pappy called his sons back to the hills to take a Gallup poll of their political views.
Seven of them, still freshmen at U. of D, all answered on the Democratic side of the roll by stating that they had voted “carefully and often.”
Pappy asked about the eighth son.
“Him,” snorted the more wakeful of the septet, “why the danged fool got to be a sophomore, learned to read and became a Republican.” — Varsity News, University of Detroit.
❖
The English Majors Get Theirs
The quotation of the week comes from the University of Minnesota where Professor Ross Finney said: “The intelligentsia are no better than the commonalty. Far from being intellectually independent, these high-brow sheep but drift in smaller droves and pride themselves on their exclusiveness.”
❖
Mottoes
The Brooklyn College Vanguard, has in its banner the slogan, “All the news that fits, we print.”
❖
More Milestones
“Said the monk as he swung by his tail, To the little monks, female and male:
‘From your offspring, my dears,
In a few million years,
May evolve a professor at Yale.’ ”
—Queen’s University Journal
“What if it is 12 o’clock? I don’t give a hoot!”
War Talk
The Indiana Daily Student tells us that the conscription deferments are to be made on the basis of indispensability, or, in other words, how valuable you are to the country in your present position. It has been stated that probably farmers will have a better chance of being deferred than the “big city” lads. Naturally, the article ended on a partisan note, “It looks like Purdue might have the laugh on some of our boys.”
♦
Ole Miss Rolls in
Last week The Rebel, humor magazine of Ole Miss, fell into these columnistic hands. After culling the joke columns and putting aside the two stories that were both funny and fit, we began looking through the articles. One, featuring the first letters of a freshman to his mother, his best pal and his home-town flame, was well done. A page was devoted to “Prof Profiles,” caricatures accompanied by appropriate quotations. Outstanding was a sketch of a wispy-haired-, chinless, be-spectacled individual, labeled ‘Inferiority — ‘How little even the wisest of us know.’ ”
❖
Personal peeves
This column will rejoice mightily when things settle down and the papers it is our part to peruse each week, end their foolish talk of initiation, fraternal and infernal, when wiseacres who write columns stop attempting to find a humorous way of plugging the “fifth column” gag, and when the worry-warts of the campuses begin to act as if the European War was still in Europe.
4
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE WEEK
= FRANK WEMHOFF=
OPINION
Top of the Week
A Georgia peach Within oui- reach.
Last Friday “The Week” printed a story taken from life and representing no place in particular. Now, it seems, someone has tried to apply that more or less isolated instances to her own peculiar habitat. “The Week” has been harshly censured. Here is the complete and unexpurgated letter of condemnation that teas received'.
❖
Deer "The Weak"
This is the message from ‘the rock.” You can’t get away with it, Weakie. We girls see through your treachery. Take back them words. Are hollowed walls are atremble with rage. We have got the buck fever (Ed. Note — Buck equals 1 American dollar). These traditional grounds upon witch once walked the dainty fett of Cobina. and Brenda are shocked and irate (Ed. Note—not to be confused with the archaic “I rate”). Us O.O. girls demand an apology. Are pride has been cut to the quick, not to mention the humidity that you have caused our own Desdemona Kootch. In the words of are own Desdemona “Youse, sir, are a cad.” Retract or impact—take your pick.
Angrily Yours, Ruth Lessly, O. O. (President of the Oriole
Ornaments) ❖
Paging Lewis
. . . The Clarks are organizing another expedition ... In class Professors D. Plunkett and Corbett have John Joseph, John Patrick, James Philip, James Jerome, and James Charles—all Clarks. ... If the present bumper crop continues it may be necessary to use Clark bars. Ah, and what will you have?
Capsule Criticism
... A recent sports picture . . . the pigskins were poorly supported. . . .
Famous Bromides
... Allis not cold that jitters . . . When in Nome do as the Nomans do . . . A stitch in time saved mine ... A bird
in the hand is worth two that say “Brrraacck!” . . .
Thumbnail Sketch
. . . Moose Piepul . . . Rolling stone that gathers no loss. . . .
Jots between Dots
. . . The Engineers call the Commerce Building the “Yacht Club” . . . Overheard in Walsh: “My window overlooks a. waste basket” . . . “From where I sat the game was only a rumor” . . . “Oh you know, that stream of unconsciousness writing” . . . “Sounds like the Quartet from Hunger.” . . .
Loony Lines
I wish I were a little egg a way up in a tree
A sitting in my little nest as bad as I could be;
I wish that you would come along and stand beneath that tree
Then I would up and burst myself and spatter thee with me.
Lesson No. I
A junior was strolling over by the stadium the other night when he spied a youngster leaning on his rifle a la Boone fashion.
“What are you shooting at, Sonny?”
“Nothing.”
“Then how do you know when you miss?”
“Can’t miss when you ain’t shootin’ at nothin’.”
❖
It can't happen here
. . . This one happened, allegedly . . . . we don’t believe it . . . but it goes something like this . . . The professor bellowed out: “Will you men in the back of the room quit exchanging papers?” . . . and a voice rumbled back: “Those aren’t papers, they’re cards. We’re playing bridge” . . . Then the professor said: “Oh, I beg your pardon.” . . .
❖
Bottom of the Week
— TNT_____So dangerous to handle...
Four bells to Jimmie Fidler who, by his presence in South Bend last weekend, gave us the idea for this iveek’s column — a review of the neiv pictures. There's only one new picture as far as anyone around here is concerned, though, so here’s what campus First Nighters thought of “Knute Rockne — All American.”
Dillon Hall, Jim Tracey: “I really enjoyed it, and thought it was Pat O’Brien’s best role. The part where Rockne gave the kids a football out on the practice field was especially convincing. It seemed the sort of thing he would have done. I liked seeing how the sequences in Sacred Heart Church came out in the finished picture, too.”
Morrissey Hall, Connie Conley: “This picture is made of the sort of stuff that will draw big crowds. The only thing I have to say against it is that it tries to covei- too much, and as a result is choppy in some places. But Pat O’Brien’s great acting job makes up for it in a large part. His scene before the investigation board is one of the most impressive I’ve seen in a long while.”
Howard Hall, Bob Courtney: “I thought the picture, ‘Knute Rockne — All American,’ was a very fitting tribute to a great man. The acting was excellent, and the scene in which Rockne defended football had a lot of punch.”
Zahm Hall, Leonard Swoyer: “One of the most interesting pictures I’ve ever seen! Football fans and anyone who knows anything about Notre Dame ought to like it especially well. The part where Rock and the team got cheered at the station after losing the Army game was characteristic of the N.D. spirit.”
Alumni Hall, Joe McGeever: “I got a couple of surprises from the picture. The first was how well Donald Crisp took the part of a priest, and the second was how well Notre Dame undergrads took the part of students.”
Breen-Phillips, Jerry Brown: “The story of Rockne makes a superb film every American should enjoy. The death scene with George Gipp gaVe a vivid picture of Rock’s softer side.”
Walsh Hall, Ben Fishburn: “My going here to school makes me one of the picture’s severest critics, and I say it was an excellent show. The locker room scenes were the McCoy.”
Next week: Gems of oratory on the election.—Carl Rohrer
The NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Entered as second-class matter at Notre Dame, Indiana. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage. Section 1103, Oct. 3, 1917. Authorized June 25. 1918.
Volume 74
OCTOBER II, 1940
Number 4
University Will Celebrate 99th
Anniversary on Sunday, Oct. 13
Fr. Sorin Honored On
St. Edward's Feast Day
The annual Feast of the Patron Saint of Father Edward Sorin, St. Edward, again visits the beautiful campus at the University of Notre Dame. Next Sunday, October 13th, will mark another year of successful and holy endeavor on the part of Father Sorin’s successors. In memory of the beloved founder, Sunday will be set aside as a day of tribute.
Ninety-nine years have passed since the Very Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., founder of the University of Notre Dame, first stood on the little clearing on the banks of St. Mary’s lake, and looked out over the snow-covered landscape; — 99 years of struggle have marked the rise of the many walls and towers of Notre Dame from the scene of unbroken wintry wilderness which greeted the eyes of the young priest.
The Log Chapel
The first church, now known as the Log Chapel, and the first school building, at present housing the Missionary band, have given way to the glorious golden dome, the diadem of Our Lady, and the glistening, symbolic Cross atop Sacred Heart church. To the zealous priest of Holy Cross and his seven companions, Brothers of the Society of St. Joseph, whose religious enthusiasm and zealous, inspired lives led them to these ice-bound lakes and this now-covered forest, belongs the highest praise and gratitude for founding this great seat of learning —The University of Our Lady.
On the 26th day of November, in the year 1842, Father Sorin and his band first stood on the shores of St. Mary’s lake and looked out upon the scene of their new labors. Father Sorin writes of that scene: “Everything was frozen, and yet it all appeared so beautiful. The lake, particularly, with its mantle—of snow, resplendent in its whiteness, was to us a symbol of the stainless
purity of our august Lady, whose name it bears, and also of the purity of soul which should characterize the new inhabitants of these beautiful shores.” The next morning, on the ground which had been given to them by the Bishop on the condition that they erect a college on that site, Father Sorin said the first Holy Sacrifice of the Mass on the feast of St. Andrew the Apostle. Thereon he offered the origin and destiny of Notre Dame to the blessed Mother of Jesus.
The buildings already on the grounds were the log cabin erected by Father Badin, the ground floor of which answered as a room for the priest, and the story above for a chapel, and a cabin occupied by an Indian and family. A mile and a half to the south was South Bend, then a village of about one thousand inhabitants. This town was so named from its situation at the south bend of the St. Joseph river, a stream which rises in Michigan, flows to the southwest, and then returns north to reenter the state of Michigan before emptying into Lake Michigan.
Coquillard First Student
When the present square brick building at the edge of St. Mary’s lake was built students lived and studied in it. The first student, the lad who led Father Sorin through the woods from South Bend to the lake on November 26, 1842, was Alexis Coquillard, who later became a distinguished and influential citizen of South Bend. The corner stone for the new college building was laid in August, 1843, on the feast of St. Augustine, and completed in June, 1844. This was the basis of what is now known as the Administration Building, atop which resides in magnificent splendor the golden dome and the state of Our Lady;
Debts then added to the trials and struggles of the little group, but relentlessly they went on, next building the chapel and novitiate house between the two lakes, and dedicating these on the feast of the Immaculate Conception, December 8,1844. Perhaps no more glorious spectacle could be witnessed than the solemn annual procession through these grounds on the feast of Corpus Christi.
Today, as she was then, Notre Dame is beautiful. The soft, shaded walks are the same; the retired groves, the gardens and the outlying farm itself, lend an exhilarating air of beauty to a holy scene. Father Sorin gloried in this grandeur,
6
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
and he planned many things for the future Notre Dame.
On November 3, 1863, there was rejoicing at Notre Dame, for two hundred and thirty students had registered. In the evening every window light in the old college was lit with its separate candle, there being neither gas nor electric light in those days. From that day on, through Rev. Patrick Dillon, C.S.C., the second president of the college, and Rev. William Corby, C.S.C., after whom Corby Hall is named, to Father John O’Hara, newly ordained Bishop and Chaplain of the Army and Navy, and Father J. Hugh O’Donnell, the University of Notre Dame has steadily grown both in buildings and number of students.
During the time Father Corby directed the University, the Ave Maria and Scholastic building was erected, and in August, 1868, the Scholastic Year, now
Clarence Finlayson Returns to University Following Delay for Chilean Documents
Clarence Finlayson, Spanish instructor at Notre Dame, returned from Mexico recently. His arrival was delayed more than a month because of new American immigration regulations which necessitated sending to Mr. Finlayson’s native Chile for many documents required by the American consulate. Prior to his position on the Notre Dame faculty, Mr. Finlayson was professor of metaphysics at the Catholic University of Santiago de Chile. He is also a member of the International Society of Writers.
It was as a delegate of the Writers’ Society of Chile that he went to Mexico City this summer to lecture on literature, on philosophy and on the political situation of Chile. During his stay in Mexico City Mr. Finlayson was the guest of the Ambassador of Chile. He gave six philosophical lectures at the University of Mexico on “The Formal Constitution of God,” and two lectures at one of the “Literary Circles” of Mexico, “Chile and Her Social and Political Evolution,” and the “Poetry of/Neruda.” One of the things he noticed at the university was its liberty and; anti-revolutionary spirit.
Visit* Mexico City
He spent ab^ut three months in Mexico City and /was present during the elections of July 7th. His impression was that General Almazon won a decisive victory and n^believes that the people of Mexico are tired of the word “revolution;” many of them think that the time has now come to begin the new phase of the revolution — to revolt
The Scholastic, was published entirely separate from the Ave Maria. Soon after came the post office, which was then situated just inside of the iron fence at the entrance to the University. In April, 1879, Notre Dame was destroyed by fire, only two buildings escaped the raging wrath which enveloped five wooden structures. However, the buildings were rebuilt before the opening day of school the following September.
The prime purpose to which Father Sorin directed his sacerdotal energies and interests was the education of youth. He understood the power which lay in the mind of youth, and he strove with the deepest intensity to mold that power for the triumph of virtue and religion. Notre Dame and St. Mary’s are the monuments of his zeal. These monuments mil endure and will make his memory immortal.
—Frank J. McDonough
against the leaders who have “speculated with the situation.” One hundred people died in Mexico City alone during the elections.
Mr. Finlayson believes that the new government will inaugurate a new policy against the Communist party. In this event, Lombardo Toledano, who has been the leader of the Mexican workers will have to leave Mexico. The workers have been organized in the C.T.M. (Confederation of Mexican Workers) and have their own militia.
During his stay in Mexico, Mr. Finlayson met many Mexican writers and remembers especially Jose Vasconcelos, one of the most outstanding thinkers in Latin America. There are many Spaniards in Mexico who are trying to raise the intellectual life of the people. Unfortunately there are many Communists operating among them.
Meets Editor
One of the most interesting persons Mr. Finlayson met was Rene Capistran Garza, editor of Novedades, a very famous newspaper. He was the civil leader of the so called “Revolucion Cristera,” which was waged by Catholics against Church persecution by the State.
There is some relief from the strong Church persecution of years ago but the situation is still very bad when compared with Church freedom in other countries. The education in the state-controlled high schools is still socialistically colored.
One of the major events occurring during Mr. Finlayson’s stay was the as
sassination of Leon Trotsky. The corpse was displayed so the public might have a last opportunity to pay their respects to the slain leader. Mr. Finlayson expected to see great numbers of the faithful followers of Trotsky in tribute to their leader but there was no demonstration and only a few came to extend their sympathies. This situation is explained by the fact that the populace was already thinking of the persecution of the Communist party that would begin after the slaying. The feeling of most of the people is pro-German.
Advanced Painter
Mexican art, especially painting, is very advanced. Mexico has two painters very well known throughout the world, Diego Rivera and Clemente Orozco. The influence of Spanish culture is apparent in the background of Mexican architecture, painting, poetry and music. One who really understands Mexico will feel that the nation are still seeking their destiny which is to be found in the roots of the Catholic Spanish culture.
The fame of Notre Dame has spread to Mexico City. The elderly archbishop of Mexico City is a very holy man; he had heard much of Notre Dame and was very happy to welcome Mr. Finlayson from the school of Our Lady.
—John F. Dinges
Sophomore Plays With
Boomerang On Campus
Jay Martine, sophomore football manager from Upper Montclair, N. J., and Brownson hall, keeps in condition with one of the most novel hobbies on the Notre Dame campus—hurling a boomerang. The boomerang is usually known as a weapon used by the Australians aborigines and named for a single tribe in New South Wales.
Martine specializes in the return style of weapon as differentiated from the non-retum or warring weapon. The wooden boomerang measures 18 inches long and weighs about eight or ten ounces. It travels at a speed of 35 miles per hour. Martine, who practices his sport on the Brownson football field opposite the fieldhouse, once broke a finger catching a return.
For nearly three years Martine has been developing his throwing arm with the boomerang. Records point out that Australian natives sometimes are able to throw the boomerang better than 100 yards. Martine has already achieved that figure with his steel-edged boomerang which he uses for hunting birds and rabbits.—Bill Scanlan
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
7
THE
600 Register For Draft Wednesday, No Classes
Approximately 600 students and a number of priests, seminarians, brothers and professors will be required to register for possible conscription in accordance with the Burke-Wadsworth Selective service act.
After a meeting on Wednesday of the University Council, the Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., announced that classes will be suspended next Wednesday, October 16, to facilitate registration of students, faculty, and members of the Congregation of Holy Cross in accordance with the regulations of the Selective Service Act. Such an action is in accordance with the traditional patriotism of Notre Dame, evidenced since the days of the Civil War when priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross served as chaplains in the U. S. military forces during time of war.
Father Trahey will direct the campus registration. He has been deputized as chief registrar by County Clerk Frank Bruggner, of St. Joseph County, and will be assisted by 25 priests of the Congregation who have volunteered their services.
There will be 12 buildings on the campus, designated by flags, where off-campus and graduate students may register. Members of the Congregation of Holy Cross will register in the University Library. Students who live with their parents in South Bend, Mishawaka, and nearby towns should register in their respective communities.
Special religious services on Wednesday in the Sacred Heart Church will officially inaugurate observance of Registration Day.
Students who are selected may apply for and receive deferment until the end of the 1940-41 academic year or until July 1, 1941, dependent upon which is prior.—James P. O'Laughlin
Fr. O'Donnell Attends
Los Angeles Centennial
The Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, left Thursday to attend the Centennial of the establishment of the Catholic hierarchy in California, to be held at Los Angeles from October 12 to 15. This trip will have a singularly personal significance for Father O’Donnell whose interest in the history and progressive organization of the American Catholic .hierarchy has made him an outstanding authority on the subject.
Coincident with the Centennial, Father O’Donnell will also attend the Sixth Annual Congress of the Confraternity of
Professor Campbell Sees New Alliance As Desperate Attempt to Distract U. S.
“The Rome-Tokyo-Berlin Alliance is a desperate attempt on the part of Germany and Italy to annoy the United States in the Far East, and thus prevent or reduce American aid to -Britain by the Atlantic. The new alliance,” continued Mr. T. Bowyer Campbell, professor of History at the University, “in my opinion,
Mr. T. Campbell haS existed in the plans of the Axis powers for. at least a year.”
Mr. Campbell qualifies as one, if not the best informed man on the campus with regard to affairs in our distant back yard—the Orient. He taught in China for a number of years, has been with the History Department here since 1931. Having been in the Orient the length of time he has, Mr. Campbell possesses an excellent understanding of the mind of the average Chinese or Japanese; he has an insight into the Orientals’ desires and demands and the relation of these demands to the welfare of this country and the world.
“But if it is your opinion that this recent pact has been planned for a year,” we inquired, ‘you must not think the embargo on scrap iron shipments to Japan was a direct cause of the German-Italian-Japanese agreement?”
“No, I think the ‘embargo’ can be regarded as non-existent insomuch that it is a cause of the pact,” answered Mr. Campbell. “This is a result of events that have been occurring for the past ten years or more. The European conflict has helped hasten it along though!”
Mr. Campbell then explained the series of events that have culminated in an outward display of opposition to the
Christian Doctrine, entering intimately into the multiple study club discussions. Father O’Donnell likewise purposes to be present at the huge outdoor Pontifical Mass which will be celebrated on October 13 in the Memorial Coliseum, before a massed congregation of 100,000 representing high-ranking clergy and laity, the latter composed principally of university groups.
During the same period, Father O’Donnell will represent the University at the dedication of the archdiocesan seminary when His Grace, the Most Rev. John J. Cantwell, D.D., Archbishop of
United States by Japan. First, there was the breaking, in 1931, ’32, ’36, and ’37, of the Nine-Power pact of 1922. This jeopardized American interests throughout the Far East, according to Professor Campbell. Also the American public opinion supports China (the government has made large loans to Chiang Kai-shek, Chinese leader), while moral opinion has been against Japan.
The Panay incident, which documents have shown to be a deliberate rather than an accidental attack on the U. S. gunboat, supported by the decision not to fortify the Pacific island of Guam, have demonstrated to the Japs weaknesses of American diplomacy. AU of these things, plus the success thus far of the Axis powers in the European war, have had an important effect in lining up Japan with Germany and Italy.
“The United States is now frightened,” continued Mr. Campbell. “Japan jeopardizes our position in the Philippines. She has already established air and naval bases in Indo-China, and from there can seriously threaten our supplies of tin, rubber and quinine so vital in plans for building a large mechanized army. But any military action Japan might consider would necessarily be one of the air and sea. Two million Japanese troops are already bogged down in China, and Tokyo could ill afford to withdraw any of them for action on another front.”
“But do you think Japan will try to take over the Dutch East Indies,” we asked, “and if so wiH the U. S. attempt to stop it forcibly?”	.
“Yes, I think Japan will,” answered Mr. Campbell. “And she wiU attempt to seize this Dutch territory very soon. But I do not think the U. S. Navy now stationed in the Pacific wfll offer any resistance. One consolation to Americans is that the Japanese navy, though large, is still untried.”
Los Angeles and Commencement speaker at Notre Dame last June, will preside at the principal ceremonies. Rounding out a full journey, the president will participate in various important educational conferences.
(A parallel departure of note is that of Sister M. Madaleva, C.S.C., president of St. Mary’s College, who accompanied by Mother M. Franciana, C.S.C., and six student delegates will represent Hie local school at the Congress. Sister Madeleva will address the Confraternity; her topic will be “Sharing With Others.”)
8
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Father Louis Kelley Recalls Trips After Graduation from Notre Dame 33 Years Ago
“I saw the world,” said the Rev. Louis M. Kelley, C.S.C., in answer to our question as to what he had done since graduation from Notre Dame in 1907.
Father stalled, “I came originally from the banks of the Wabash, not so far away. At a tender age I migrated to the Gas Belt, to a little town near the now famous Elwood. When the gas gave out I came to Notre Dame. Later I joined the Community.”
Studies at Rome
“After graduation from Notre Dame, I studied at Washington, D. C., then went to Rome. I returned to Washington to teach for 14 years. After a year at Notre Dame teaching philosophy, I went West, as every young man should. Portland University was then but a junior college with fewer than a hundred students. I saw it grow to an accredited four year college. We had one glorious commencement with only one college graduate. The school now has almost a thousand students, and last year its football team beat the famous St. Mary’s of California.
“Father Kelley went on, “When my two terms were up, I moved again, as we do not believe in a third term for college presidents. I went south to New Orleans, which modestly calls itself,
Frs. Cavanaugh, Connerton
Named to Plan Centennial
Making plans for the approaching Centennial of the University, the Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, announced the appointment this week of the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president, as chairman of the committee in charge of arrangements.
Father Cavanaugh, assisted by the Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., as secretary, will supervise the organization of details for the event honoring the 100th anniversary of the school in conjunction with the general council of the University.
Founded in 1842
Father O’Donnell pointed out that all phases of University life will be featured in the celebration, with emphasis upon its foundation by the Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., on November 26, 1842.
“Any suggestion of the faculty, alumni or students for the event will be welcome. They may be sent to Father Cavanaugh or Father Connerton,” Father O’Donnell said.
‘America’s most interesting city.’ There I worked in a typical American parish with a great church, a great school, and a great debt. For six years I saw the pageantry of the Mardi Gras, enjoyed the warmth of a southern sun and southern hospitality.
Back to Starting Point
“And now I am back where I started. My first class this year was taught in the same room in which I entered for my first class as a Notre Dame student just 41 years ago. It is good to be home again!”
Father Kelley is now teaching sophomore Apologetics. The Gas Belt to which he refers and the incident of the “gas giving out” are probably in need of explanation. The Gas Belt was a section of Indiana where natural gas was dirt cheap for a time. Many families moved into the section and made use of this opportunity of cheap light and heat. Then the gas supply gave out and, of course, many of the people left. The incident went around the Notre Dame campus and for some time was a popular geographical or locale joke. It could be compared to the “did you leave California of your own free will, or did you get rained out” type of today.—Robert D. LeMense
Assisting Fathers Cavanaugh and Connerton are: the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C.; the Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C.; the Rev. P. J. Carroll, C.S.C.; the Rev. Kerndt Healy, C.S.C.; the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C.; the Rev. Francis Boland, C.S.C.; the Rev. Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C.; the Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C.; and the Rev. John Burke, C.S.C.
The newly-appointed committee will meet at various times in the next few months to crystallize various plans of operations for the next year. The length of time and exact dates of the Centennial celebration have not yet been determined.—Bill Scanlan
Wins First Prize
First prize of $50 in a local Chicago contest was the reward of Barrett Guthrie, Carroll Hall freshman, for working a mathematical puzzle which baffled the contest’s other 10,000 contestants. When he received word of his good fortune this week Guthrie exclaimed: “I knew a clean life would pay dividends!” (The event was run by a soap company.)
Former N. D. Professor
Named Hunter President
Ceremonies marking the dedication of Hunter College’s new sixteen - story building in New York City and the inauguration of Dr. George N. Shuster,
OK.GEORGEfJSHusT&t
former Notre Dame student and professor, as the fifth president of the college, took place this week. About 1,500 representatives of educational and civic organizations and government officials were present, according to Professor James M. Hendel, faculty marshal. Dr. Jacques Maritain, noted French philosopher, spoke.
Consider Economics Plan
For Engineering Students
Professor Robert Riordan met with the dean and department heads of the College of Engineering to discuss the content of a course in the principles of economics to be offered to engineers. This is the first year that a course of this kind has been required for engineers. It is to replace the course heretofore listed as Engineering Economics.
Because of the mathematical training' the engineers have had, the course will be more intensive than the course offered to the Arts and Letters students and technical analysis will be emphasized.
Dean Dugald Jackson, with the approval of the Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., Director of Studies, sponsored the inclusion of this course in the engineering programs because he felt the
need of social sciences as well asphysical sciences to give the' students a well-rounded program/
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE
Chilean Professor Takes
Part in University Plan
The augmentation of friendly Pan-American relations is, with the present set-up of world affairs, a factor of prime importance for the future well-being of our nation. Notre Dame has granted a one-year scholarship to Mr. Eduardo Alcayaga, a teacher and lawyer of Chile, who is commissioned by his government to spend at least one year at a United States college. Here at Notre Dame Mr. Alcayaga has quietly taken up residence at 308 Alumni Hall and has occupied himself with the study of philosophy and economics.
Before he came to the United States Mr. Alcayaga was engaged in two professions—law and teaching. His teaching was done in the morning in the high school at Cauquenes, a Chilean city located in the central part of the country. This high school, which is owned by the government, was founded 107 years ago in the Franciscan monastery of the city. At noon, upon the completion of his teaching duties, he practiced law, having earned his law degree in the University of Cauquenes.
When asked his main reason for choosing Notre Dame Mr. Alcayaga stated that it is the desire of the Chileans to copy, with modifications, the American system of education, which his government feels is best exemplified at Notre Dame, and to put such a system into effect in Chilean schools and colleges
—R. A. Nelson
K. of C. Vaudeville
Will be Revived Again
The traditional “Ghost of Washington Hall” will have to take it on the lam early in December when the Knights of Columbus-sponsored vaudeville hits the ancient theatre boards again.
The “ghost” is an old man now and can’t stand the hoof-pounding, jivesending antics of Notre Dame’s annual crop of enthusiastic entertainers.
For many years the K. of C. vaudeville wa*f an annual occurrence, and springboarded such stars as Walter O’Keefe and Charlie Butterworth into their first meeting with an applauding audience. It was dropped after a series of performances, and last year the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., prevailed upon the K. of C. officers to revive the show.
Well on the come-back trail now, after an enthusiastic send-off last year for the winners of the three prizes—$30, $20, §10—the finals of the' show are scheduled for appearance before Christmas vacation.
If you haven’t heard Don Tiedemann sing, go to a 7:00 o’clock Benediction. At the “O Salutaris” you will hear first a low hum, deep and sonorous, from somewhere among the pews. At the “Coeli pandis ostium,” a subdued but definite intonation will break out, and at the “Nobis donet in patria,” it will seem to rattle the pews like an organ at full stop. Other voices will seem to die out in that part of the church—whether they stop to listen, <5r are discouraged by the competition, or are drowned out by solo-power, I haven’t decided. You can look around at him—yours won’t be the only head turned. Because when Don sings, he doesn’t hold back. And when Don gives, people are bound to hear. Besides, singing in church is an old habit with Don—he found his voice in early choir singng.
From the beginning, Don launched out strenuously in a long and steady course of voice training. He studied under the well-known teachers, Clarence Reiners and Evan Evans. He has gotten experience, too, in singing in the Summer Opera at Chautauqua. In fact, one of his most prided achievements is having sung the part of Major Domo with Josephine Antoine. But passing up a chance at Julliard, Tiedemann came to Notre Dame and the Glee Club. Soon he was baritone soloist, and eventually president. Also, he plays trombone in the Band.
Away from the notes? Don is a philosopher. That’s his major, and he likes it. Literature is his other strong interest.
Away from the books? Well, he doesn’t mind being with girls. He has that peculiar Nelson Eddy touch with them, bless their hearts. Serenading, he favors, “Jeanie With the Light Brown Hair.” It has a particular message, no matter whom he sings it to.
Is Don temperamental? Well, not in the strict sense of the word. But he acts very strange when excited — they call him “The Little Bull” — he jumps up and down and snorts. Especially when something goes wrong (and he gets an urge to throw a music table), or when he gets a telegram.
His supreme moment? When he sang “When Irish Eyes Are Smiling” at the Notre Dame-Navy game in his freshman year.
His most embarrassing moment? When Father Molter caught him on his hand and knees in a dark corridor of Zahm one night.
His prospects for the future? He plans to enter Harvard Law School next year.’ But of course, music and singing will always be an important avocation.
Prospects for the Glee Club? An even more prosperous year than last. With 42 veterans and a total of 75, he hopes to build a traveling group of 50, and make several important tours.
His chief worry? What he calls “keeping the ballast down.” He doesn’t want a Melchiorian figure.
It isn’t often that Notre Dame students in general get to hear Don (outside of church), but tomorrow he’ll sing “God Bless America” between the halves of the Notre Dame-Georgia Tech game.
Yes, I suppose you’re wondering, does he sing in the showers? Yea man—ask Alumni Hall!
Buses Become Popular
With Notre Dame Students
The old cry of students, “Let’s take a" taxi!” has this fall dwindled to a hoarse whisper with the introduction of new luxury motor buses on the Notre Dame-Michigan Avenue line. These buses make the run in eight to ten minutes, starting at 5:36 a.m. week-days and 7:12 a.m. Sundays and continuing up to 11:30 every night.
In the afternoon and evening, on Saturday and Sunday, buses leave the campus and the corner of Michigan and Washington downtown at intervals of six minutes. The rest of the time, they leave every 12 minutes.
To care for the crowds on the days of home football games, the company will press into service all of their buses that they can spare.—Carl Rohrer
Chemist Club to Stage
Victory Dance Saturday
Tomorrow night the Chemist club will again entertain the student body when they reel off their third annual Victory Dance. The reeling will be done to the music of Bob Richardson and his orchestra. The dance is to be held at the Progress club from 8:30-11:30 pan. and the ticket sale, at one dollar a couple, is under the direction of Dan Bradley, 425 Walsh Hall.—Mark G. McGrath ..
10	THE
Film Stars Go West
As Rockne Week Ends
A downpour of rain starting early Sunday afternoon unofficially brought to a close Knute Rockne Week activities. As banners and bunting faded beneath the rain a comparative quiet settled ovei* the campus. The festival air was gone, as were the radio and screen stars who had come from points east and west to aid in Friday night’s star attraction, the world premiere of Warner Brother’s “Knute Rockne—All American.”
As four South Bend theatres showed the movie, Notre Dame students sat in on their own premiere at Washington Hall. The film was shown four times Friday, the first showing was reserved for the faculty, the remaining three for students. On Thursday night previous to the premiere, Hollywood stars appeared at a banquet in the University Dining Hall.
Gradually swelling knots of students could be seen clustered about each notable as he or she appeared on the campus. Such actors as Pat O’Brien, who played the title role in the movie, Gale Page, Ronald Reagan, Donald Crisp, Owen Davis, Jr., Bob Hope, Anita Louise, Rosemary Lane, Kate Smith, Jane Wyman, Rudy Vallee, Charlie Ruggles, Irene Rich, Bruce Cabot, Gail Patrick, Willie Howard, Robert Buckner, Ricardo Cortez, Peggy Diggins, and Lucille Fairbanks contributed to the entertainment.
The banquet was given in honor of Mrs. Bonnie Rockne, widow of the famous coach. Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Jr., read a message from Iris father, the President of the United States, while Frank C. Walker, postmaster general and Notre Dame alumnus, paid tribute to the work of Rockne.
Saturday morning’s activities centered around a visit by the stars to Knute Rockne’s grave at Highland cemetery, where wreaths were laid in his memory. Later the stars paid a visit to St. Mary’s College.
At 2 o’clock Saturday afternoon they met again at the stadium and saw a skywriting plane lay out the word “Rockne” above their heads while on the stadium turf before them the Notre Dame band paid additional honor* to the immortal coach.
They also saw the Notre Dame football team well on its way to a 25-7 victory over College of the Pacific before they returned to South Bend, midway in the third quarter, to catch a train for Hollywood.—Don Heltzel
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Better Pan American Relations Seen
Today with Avar raging on the continents of Europe, Africa and Asia, we of the United States have a tendency to forget our South and Central American brothers who share our continent with us. Consequently few North Americans fully appreciate the political and social situation existing among these Latin nations. Having spent a year touring South America, I believe that I can safely express my views on the subject.
Social Conditions
The almost universal social conditions in South America are totally different from our own. Whereas the backbone of our society is the middle class, there exists there a very small middle class. The populace is divided into two major brackets; the rich and the poor. The rich, who make up no more than twenty per cent of the populace, control the land and wealth of their nations and to a large extent, the politics.
We have heard much talk of the fifth column movements in South America. There is no denying their existence and their strength. For example, in the south of Chile the popular language is not Spanish, but German; the land there is owned and controlled by Germans. In Argentina almost 40 per cent of the population is at least part Italian, and in both of these nations until recently, schools teaching German principles, in German, and by German instructors flourished in the rural areas. In Peru the Japanese have been infiltrating for a long while, until now they have become powerful landowners and merchants. In Columbia and Uruguay the governments have recently uncovered well organized fifth column units. And as a final bit of Trojan horse activity most of the South American armies are German
Annual Lawyers Ball Scheduled for Oct. 18
General Chairmen Bernard Fipp and Russell Dolce announced Friday, Oct. 18, as the date of the Annual Law Ball. The dance will be held in the Palais Royale, Dick Shelton’s orchestra furnishing the music.
Bids to the dance will be §3.00 per couple and seats for the Carnegie Tech-Notre Dame game will be available to Ball goers and their dates. $3.60 and a student ticket will secure a pair of seats in the special section to be reserved for the Ball-goers and their guests.
Other committees for the dance are: Publicity, Edward V. Minczeski, chairman, Jerry O’Dowd, and William Myers;
trained and many of them still use German equipment. All of this German, Italian and Japanese influence is a product of many years work on the part of those nations. While we have neglected our Latin neighbors, these nations have exploited them; taken away much of the South American trade that should be ours, sent their nationals to South America to spread their influence, and financed their own political organizations there.
While I was in Chile, I exchanged opinions with many of the Chileans of both the middle and the upper classes. To them the European struggle was of prime importance. There were definitely two fields of thought or hope as to the outcome, with the British sympathizers having probably the numerical majority. The governments on the whole, have begun a movement to do away with the German schools of which I spoke, to break up any organized foreign units and to soften as much as possible all strong foreign sentiment.
Closer Relationship
With this movement has come a feeling, which in South America is novel, of a closer relationship with the United States. For years the South Americans have looked upon our nation as the colossus of the North; a nation interested solely in the making of money and the forceful domination of the Western Hemisphere. More recently they have rejected most of our attempts at closer relationship and have resented immensely our “big-brother” attitude in stressing the famous Monroe Doctrine. But this feeling is beginning to change, the South Americans are opening up, and now for the first time we hear of “pro-Uncle Sam” rallies.—Mark McGrath
Patrons, Charles Dell, chairman, William Mclnerny and Edward Kelly; Tickets, Albert Van Huffle, chairman, and William Johannes, Edward Mahoney, Robert Thompson and Bernard Hiss; Music, John Corcoran, chairman, and Ernest Timpani; Hall arrangements, Donald Hurst, chairman, and Richard Kackmar-ek and William Syring; Football tickets, John Barry, chairman, and Patrick Bannon and George Milford; Program, William McVay, chairman, Ronald Regent and Henry Schrenker; Invitations, James Graham, chairman, and Joseph Pawloski and John Kelly; and Business, James R. McQueen, chairman, and Joseph Miller—-Joe Stephen
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT COMMENDS POSTMASTER GENERAL
Courtesy N.C.W.C. Service
Walker Visits Campus; Talks Sports, Movies
Living in No. 13 Sorin back in 1908 failed to become a hindrance for Frank C. Walker, handsome young debaterjournalist, who 32 years later, bn Sept. 11, 1940, became the first Notre Dame man in history to hold a portfolio in the cabinet of the President of the United States.
“Harry (Red) Miller, captain of the 1909 Irish team, rates as high as any of the present day football “stars,” Postmaster General Walker commented on the campus the other day as he stopped off to see his son, Thomas, at Dillon hall, in between a golf date and a preview of 1940 spirit. Mr. Miller’ has two sons, Tom and Creighton, on the Irish football squads of 1940. Switching to current problems and popular headline personalities, Mr. Walker continued his intimate comments:
“President Roosevelt doesn’t want to
get us into the war and is doing everything possible to prevent it. The best way is to be prepared so that other nations will not attack us.”
“Jim Farley is still negotiating for the ownership of the New York Yankees but I’ve not heard anything of the rumor Joseph Kennedy will resign as an Ambassador,” he furthered.
The newly-appointed Postmaster General, graduate of Notre Dame in 1909, formerly edited The Scholastic. He is now head of a chain of 180 theaters in New York and Pennsylvania. “We should have more shorts, newsreels and lots of variety instead of double features,” he emphasized. Mr. Walker plans to continue the policy of the post office department to accomplish everything possible in the drive against bad literature being sent through the mails.—Bill Scanlan
OUR DAILY BREAD
LITURGY
The participation of the faithful in the priesthood of Christ is not a new discovery. . . . Neither is it some newfangled devotion proposed for their edification. . . . The emphasis upon it in our day is but part of the effort to offset the denial of the supernatural in man. . . . It follows from the union of mannature with God-nature in the person of Christ. ... We have seen that St. Thomas finds it implicit in the doctrine of the sacraments, a necessary consequence of the Incarnation.
The law of prayer is the law of faith, is an ancient axiom. ... It means that the prayer of the Church is a sure guide to the doctrine and practice of the Church. . . . The oldest recorded prayers are those of the missal. . . . The missal is the permanent record of the continuous tradition of the Church in its central act of worship.... In every part it bears witness to the identification of priest and people as co-offerers of the Holy Sacrifice.	.
The usual form of expression is, “Our sacrifice,” “Our offering,” “Our gift.” ... At the Orate Fratres the priest says, “Pray that my sacrifice and yours may be acceptable to God the Father Almighty.” . . . Only in a few instances does he emplay the first person singular. . . . Even then he does not stand alone. . . . He is Christ’s official representative speaking in the name of the whole Church. . . . The whole Church, in the person of the server, ratifies his prayer with the response, “Amen,” “So be it.” ... If everyone present would say it loud and strong, or at least sing it at the High Mass, they would come to appreciate more -fully the reality of their part in the Holy Sacrifice.
The Collects and the Secret Prayers abound with examples. . . . The Secret prayer for the feast of St. Mark, October 7, a Pope of the fourth century, reads in part, “May this offering, made by a people consecrated to Thee, find favor, O Lord, in thy sight.” ... To this ancient testimony we can fittingly add some words of Pope Pius XI who said to a group of Catholic Boy Scouts, “that sacrifice which you along with me have offered, as indeed you have.”
(Mass Calendar on Page 23)
12
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Father Cavanaugh, Layden
Speak on Radio Program
Notre Dame’s idle ether waves will end their summer vacation Sunday at 8:30 p.m. when they are slated to carry the voices of Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, and Elmer Layden, head football coach, on the Founder’s Day program, the first of the school year.
Vern Witkowski, producer of the show, has been making arrangements through the week to assure an entertain-
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
ing half hour. The program he released early this week opens with the Glee Club singing a selection, followed by the introduction of Robert Lejeune, this year’s president of the Radio Club.
The Glee club will also sing before a talk by Coach Layden. A short dramatic interlude will follow, portraying the lives of some of Notre Dame’s great priests. Voices from the Glee Club will furnish background for the performance. ‘	■
Following this Father Cavanaugh and James E. Armstrong, secretary of the Alumni association, will talk.
The Founder’s Day program will start a series of radio programs emanating from the campus studios. Last year’s popular Radio Stage show will be heard again Tuesday at 8:30 p.m. when John Coppinger’s script “Joe Told You” will be aired. Actors for “Joe Told You” are headed by Jack White, with Johnny Kelly and George Grogan in supporting parts. A freshman, Jim McDonough, also won a speaking part in the show.—Don Heltzel
Dan Hanley, Caretaker of Gym, Knew the Athletes of Other Days
Coming from the mines of Michigan and the plains of the west to the University of Notre Dame in 1927, Dan Hanley, genial white-haired prospector and general handyman about the campus, cheerfully toils at his job of caretaker in the old gym near Cartier Field. A friend to all athletes, Dan was born and reared in Houghton, Mich., a mining region and the home of the famed George Gipp and Hunk Anderson, onetime head football mentor at Notre Dame, and now line coach for the Chicago Bears Professional football team.
When not diligently employed at prayer in Sacred Heart Church, or visiting the Grotto of Our Lady, Dan can always be found in his neat room in the old Gymnasium, kindly conversing with a student. Dan loves the outdoors, and as a youth he worked in the copper mines of Houghton. During the year 1888 when copper mining had reached a new high, he was mining from three to four- thousand feet in the ground.
Recalls Past Events
“In those days,” chuckled Dan, remi-niscingly, “the miners wore hard helmets similar to the top-hat of today but made of a resin substance which withstood the weight of the falling rocks. Those rocks would break the miner’s neck before they would go through the helmet.”
When the tariff on imported copper was lowered during the reign of President Cleveland, and the mines of Michigan were thrown into confusion, Dan packed up his belongings and went west to Arizona to prospect for quartz, the metal which is sometimes called “blue rock” by old miners. Dan found it very tough to leave the scenes of his boyhood days, the Catholic Mission church wherein he had been baptized and in which he had been practically reared, the mines, now closed, where he had toiled and struggled, and the people whom he knew. But he was made of stern stuff— good Catholic stock—which prompted him to seek his livelihood elsewhere.
Across the entire western part of the United States Dan traveled, reaching into Mexico and British Columbia on two different trips. Prospector Dan and his partner moved on, always seeking, ever hopeful, but never realizing that huge store of quartz of which they had visions.
On one of his trips into the wilds of British Columbia, Dan and his partner visited Fort Steele, where they saw a
small mission chapel. Dan remembers that small church to this day. He had been out prospecting for two weeks, and one Sunday morning he went to early Mass in the fort, while most of the garrison still slept. The mahogany woodwork of the pews and walls gleamed and shimmered under the early morning sunrays. The plain altar was set up on a platform in the front of the chapel, and two small candles decorated the rather bare altar. This was a very picturesque sight to a man who had been away from civilization for weeks at a time, and, with the sunlight brightening and offsetting the bareness of the altar, a missionary said Mass for the handful of people present.
Dan’s early Catholic training is evident in all his actions, and sometimes he severely criticizes those who harm the Church by false writings. He deems Catholic Action to be one of the biggest things which has come to the front dur-
Dan Hanley
ing his time, and he advocates that every lay person should, in his or her own particular group, prove a valiant Catholic, not only in speech, but also most strongly in action.
Inspiration to Students
Each Benediction Service finds Dan in the fifth pew from the front on the left-hand side of Sacred Heart Church.
(Continued on Page 26)
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
13
Near Completion of First
Pictures for 1941 "Dome"
Editor Neil McCarty and his Dome staff have started work on the 1941 Dome.
The various departments are getting under way and the pictures of the freshmen and sophomores by halls are almost completed. Action pictures of the football players are being taken this week under the direction of Jim Burke.
The senior section of the book will be brought to exquisite perfection with 80 candid shots of seniors. The faculty section also will be changed to include informal shots of the professors at home and at work.
The campus shots and pictures of the halls for the views section are being taken this week and an aerial picture of the campus will be taken soon.
—Bob Fitzpatrick
Metallurgist Speaks At
Monthly Meeting of ASM
The Notre Dame Chapter of the American Society for Metals held its October meeting on Wednesday with dinner in the University dining hall, followed by a technical session in the Engineering auditorium. Speaker of the evening was Robert S. Archer, chief metallurgist of the Chicago division of Republic Steel Corporation. Mr. Archer spoke on, “Some Aspects of Steel Mill Metallurgy.” Mr. Archer illustrated his talk with lantern slides depicting typical operations of the South Chicago plant of his corporation. He discussed the nature of the equipment of a steel mill and its operations. Special attention was given to the functions of the metallurgical department of a steel-making organization.
—Robert LeMense
Outline Program During
Academy of Politics Meet
Plans for the year were discussed on Thursday night by the members of the Academy of Politics. The Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., head of the Department of Politics, appointed Harry Murray as radio chairman to take care of the club’s program.
President Thomas Carty outlined the events which the club will sponsor. These include a debate in Washington Hall, dinner meetings, and a trip to some nearby community to watch the city council in action.
THE CAMPUS
BY GEORGE MILES
Now that the shouting is over, now that the din has subsided, now that Kate has trod, has trod, has trod, and now that Ronald has sent teeny-weeny thrills up and down female back-bones, we look for a regional relapse. The trouble with an event like the one we witnessed last week is that it comes to an end too quickly. The emotions are moved to an extraordinary height, then left thirsting when their desire is greatest. And we can see only one way out of the difficulty: the University must arrange to have the Warner Brothers Studio send a batch of celebrities to the campus every week. In exchange, the Athletic Association might send some complimentary tickets for the football game. One ticket for every five stars.
$	4^	£
There are at least two people who were annoyed no end because of the hilarious hi-jinks at the Oliver Hotel on premiere night. One woman was unable to get through the police lines although she maintained vigorously that she had eaten in the hotel for twenty years. But what was even more incongruous was the ejection of the off-campus prefect of discipline from the lobby because he had no pass.
* * *
In case you hadn’t heard, the Post Office is closing at 5:30 o’clock these days. It seems that the workers sought out the new Postmaster General when he visited here, and requested a shortei-working day. When he agreed, they constructed a sign announcing the fact and wrapped it round one of the pillars out front. The sign was nice, but a disappointment after such slogans as: “The mail must go through!” and “Neither snow nor rain, nor wind nor sleet will stop these couriers from the completion of their duty.”
* * *
We have always liked Joe Casasanta. We like the way he leads his band, the way he smokes cigars, the way he holds his hands in his pockets, but we are determined to have not even a casual concern for him in the future if he dares to play “God Bless America” once again.
When the students stormed Washington Hall for the first showing of the Rockne picture we felt sure that the building would fall just like the Bastille. If it had not been for the courageous defense thrown up by Fathers Trahey and Ryan the hall would have been taken. Only one fellow sneaked past Father Ryan, and he had to use a sleeper to do it. While the sentry guarded one door, this fellow slipped in the other.
* * *
Later that evening we dropped in to see if the picture was all that we thought it would be. It was.
* * *
We have learned from the acting president of the Student Council that Rose and Katz, the men’s shop in South Bend, recently offered to outfit the student cheering section with gold and blue pcrk-pie hats. Everything was sailing along smoothly until Mr. Rose (or perhaps it was Mr. Katz) made it clear that Rose and Katz were to be paid for their pork-pies. According to the latest reports the student cheering section will supply their own hats—colors optional.
* * *
On the Sunday morning after Hollywood week-end, the fellow across the hall found a large can of tomato juice outside his door. When asked for an explanation he told us that his parents probably had left it. “It’s just their way of letting me know that I’m spending too much money for breakfast,” he said.
» ♦ ♦
Now that the first football game has been played and the leaves are falling from the trees, and the bells go unheard in the morning one may safely say that school is really started. There was no doubt in our mind after we heard a fellow ask the number of days until Christmas vacation, last week.
* * *
A new note of pessimism has slipped into the hearts of the South Bend taxi drivers. When a student asked to be taken to the Oliver last week, his driver turned and asked: “Hotel or movie?”
14
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Disce Quasi Semper Victurus Vive Quasi Cras Moriturus
FOUNDED 1867
WTT.T.TAM c. McGOWAN, Editor-m-Cbief
JOHN W. PATTERSON, Jr,, Managing Editor
JAMES NEWLAND, Promotion
WILLIAM SCANLAN, News Editor
JOHN DINGES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MILES, Literary Editor
BERNARD LONGO, Art Editor
REV. C. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C., Faculty Advisor
Member of Catholic School Press Association and Associated Collegiate Pr“?-.
of Collegiate Digest. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service, Inc.. 420 Madison Avenue, New York City—Chicago-^Boston—Los Angeles—San Francisco. THE SCHOLASTIC is published twenty-six tines during the school year at the University of Notre Dame. Address manuscripts to Editor, 213 Walsh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Staff meetings Friday evening in Editorial Rooms, Ave Maria Building; Editorial Staff, 6:30 P.M.; General Staff, 7:00 P.M.
War and the Spirit of Man
The ravages of war reach far deeper than is conceived of by popular sentiment. We see and hear the horrors of the battlefield; we gasp at the open destruction and mutilation of men’s bodies. Yet there is an equally, if not more important pemiciousness, brought about by war—the ultimately more disastrous destruction of men’s spirits. Long before the invasion of the shores there come definite internal attacks on the mind of the nation. Progress in the social and cultural orders—forms of progress more subtle, yet none the less important—are forgotten in the blinding blatant concern for war.
Don't Buy a Coffin Yet
Although the somewhat excusable lack of spirit in the Notre Dame Stadium last Saturday is a point in his favor, Benny Friedman was wrong when he claimed that pro football has it all over the college brand in every respect.
Friedman will be remembered as one of Michigan football titans. He operated from the quarterback slot, and was good enough to be unanimously chosen All-American. Lately, in Collier’s, he published an article which insinuated that college football is dwindling into nothingness—and rapidly.
To prove his argument from the spectator’s viewpoint, Friedman compared one pro game he saw last year with one not-so-hot collegiate contest he attended. Those two games, he assumed, were typical in their respective fields. That’s carrying assumptions a long way.
Sticking close to home, it is refutation enough to simply mention three games Notre Dame played last season— remember Georgia Tech, Southern Methodist, and Southern California. And what pro game in the entire record book can match that N.D.-Ohio State clash in 1935?
In Friedman’s masterpiece, he claimed that the fans who go to see their favorite pro games lack none of the intense spirit, perform no less colorful antics than the collegians. The Washington Redskin
rooters are certainly a wild mob. But what about the rest of them?
The Pittsburgh Steelers, opening their season this year with a potentially great club, drew a large crowd. But there was nothing going on except a football game. When mouths opened it was to get full pleasure out of a hearty yawn—not to yell. The game had a terrible odor all the way through.
On one point and one only was Friedman in the right. The pros are better ball players than their college contemporaries. They’ve only been through four years of college; they are just the pick of the college crop; they are the most experienced bunch of football players around. And the rules they play under do make for a more open game.
With all that, the pros don’t put on any better show than do the amateurs. The pros fumble, too, the centers make bad passes, the backs get off putrid punts. They make mistakes just like the not infallible college teams; they reach great heights of play, and so do the collegians.
Attendance at professional football games is increasing every year. Friedman didn’t forget that. He did, however, skip over the fact that the college hoys had more people watching them in 1939 than in 1938—and so on back to “bicycle built for two” days.
College football isn’t a dead duck yet, and Friedman didn’t quite hit the target with his shot at it.—John Patterson
Youth, held as the world’s source of hope and ambition, has its vitality dimmed by the seeming futility of life infected by war. Ambition, ideals, life intentions, all run into the dead-end of war’s destruction. Youth sees the higher things in the natural order discounted, and too often forsakes all that makes it the stronghold of real progress.
Is this war to mark the end of time? Are we to be reduced to the one man-one woman state of humanity? Unless we are to end up in a world utterly emptied of what we now hold as culture, it is necessary that we pursue and maintain that culture even in the face of the enemy. In the past there have been dark and hope-lost times, and yet they passed. Had not someone preserved the better things of their time, they would have wandered blindly in the dark, forced to rebuild painfully and ploddingly their culture and heritage.
Scholarship and studies must continue; scholars and students must pursue their tasks. It is perhaps an encouraging fact to note that our government has kept its feet on the ground and still realizes the need of a thoughtful, progressing, rising generation. In President Roosevelt’s message to college students concerning the draft, he speaks of the necessity of “well educated and intelligent citizens” as well as the practical “scientists, engineers, economists and other people with specialized knowledge. . . .” This feeling must be retained, for as well as defending our heritage, we must keep it worth defending.
—E. J. Q.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
15
GARFISH
By JAMES MEANEY
Neal woke quietly that morning. A damp dawn-breeze was blowing across the cool sheet on his chest. He opened his eyes to the dim light as Ash stirred in his bed and lay still. Outside, a mocking bird garbled in a shrill whistle over the distant moan of a dove. Rose edges of blue dawn-clouds outlined a dark tree-top through the window. He looked at the alarm clock. Five-forty. The bellspring ticked, and Ash opened his eyes. Neal sat up, sliding the chill sheet from his chest.
“What time is it?” he heard Ash ask.
“Huh? Oh, — time to get up.” Neal reached for the alarm button, punched it in, and picked up a crumpled shirt. He shoved his arm into the clammy sleeve. Ash jumped up and padded in to the bathroom.
“Come on, hurry up, pokey!” he called back. Neal slid his bare feet into stiff pants leg and sat on the edge of the bed. His feet scraped into hard shoes; but they were comfortable and cool. Ash came briskly from the bathroom, rubbing his hands, and Neal went in to wash. Over the splashing he heard a beltbuckle jangle, a scuffling of shoes, and foot-clomps down the stairs. Neal hurried down, through the dark-curtained dining room into the kitchen. Ash was fumbling with a mess of fishing hooks and string.
“Grab a. sweet-roll—no time to eat. Get the oars.”
“I want some coffee.”
“No, come on.” Ash dropped the hooks, picked a roll from the bread box, unlocked the door and went out. Neal chose a roll and followed. Ash was standing on the step looking at the sky. Everything was quiet and dew-covered. A dog curled under a shrub, looked up and wagged its tail. Heavy-footed wet tracks marked the lawn to and from the milk-bucket shelf.
“Pancho isn’t finished milking. What’ll we do?” he asked Ash.
“He said not to wait. Let’s go.” He crossed the lawn and crunched onto the shell drive. Neal caught up and walked abreast in the other track.
“Think we caught anything?”
“Pancho says the redfish are running. Maybe a couple of big ones.”
“Oh, the oars!”
“Well, dummox, go back and get them.” Ash waited, kicking a shell off the drive into the grass. Neal returned and gave him an oar.
“Always makin’ sure you don’t do more’n half, ain’tcha?” He swung the car to his shoulder and went on.
They reached the highway and crossed it into a field, following the plowridges. At the end of the rows the ground broke off, sloping down into ebony-thicketed cliffs. They reached the ebonies, and Ash stopped, looking off
Beggars
I pitied him. Beneath the beggars’ tree, From God knows ivhere he came, there sat a child.
I dropped five casual coins Into his bent tin cup. He smiled And said some bashful word of thanks.
“You little mop Of tangled hair, you smile yet cannot see Those coins.”
“But I can hear your pennies drop.” .... Lord,
I pitied him; should not he pity me? Such currency of graces You let fall And sometimes I neither hear nor see.
—V. C. M.
down the bay below. A blue, bumpy line marked the farther shore, looming into white cliffs at points and receding into the thin blue blur of coves. The bluegray water shaded into mud and sandshoals below them, ending in stiff green salt-grass. Off the shore a sandy point pronged into the water where two scows floated at posts. On down the shore the meandering edge of salt-grass blended into the green of the ebony cliffs, circling around to the opposite shore in the distance. Five great white pelicans rose from the point and skimmed along, flapping and gliding, then wheeled slowly and skirted up the margin of the bayou.
“Tide’s out.”
“Yes, and off-shore wind. I hope the hooks aren’t out of water.” They climbed
down a steep, twisting foot-path, sliding and holding to crags, and ducking to miss thorny ebony branches. On level ground below the path straightened, leading along the shore to the - point. The firm sand crunched under their feet as they headed out to the point, wet and soggy near the shore. Sloshing out to the boat, they fitted the oars in the locks. A rusty tin bailing can bobbed on the dirty shrimp-smelling water in the scow. Ash got in, stepping on the ribs, and took the oars.
“You bail. I’ll row.” Neal got in and began to bail as they headed out to the posts marking the trotline. Rhythmically the can scraped the bottom and threw out a splash of water, keeping time with the rattle of the oarlocks.
“Where’m I heading’?”
“Pull more on your right. Too much.
Now, straight ahead.”
Schools of mullet rippled the water, spreading away fan-wise to the front and sides of the boat. Crabs zig-zagged off, and shrimp flipped in the water. A gull winged by, twisting to watch them, dove with a splash, and rose gulping .a fish. They neared the post, and Neal set down the can.
“More on the left. There.” The post glided along the side, under the oar, and Neal grabbed it, swinging the boat around toward the trotline. Ash lifted the line, veering it out out the water, exposing several dangling hooks.
“Bait all gone. Crabs again. Here, bait these hooks." They pulled the boat along the line, battling as they went.
“Hey, wait — there’s something on down there. Lift the line.” The stretched cord jerked twice.
“It’s heavy. Come on, let’s see.” They scooted along the line. Now it thrashed and cut the water, and leaped clear, a long, lean, bony-plated alligator gar.
“Look out, watch those teeth.” Ash held the line up, waist-high. The gar jerked, flipped free, and landed beside Ash in the boat.
“Yoweee!” Ash leaped from the snapping teeth into the water. Neal, from the back of the boat, grabbed an oar and pinned the fish to the bottom. Ash climbed back in with wet pantlegs. .
“Kinda scared you, didn’t it?” “Aw, shuddup.”
16
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
THE GEORGIA MA
IC
Yellow Jackets Meet Uncertain Irish;
Little Johnny Bosch is Man to Watch
Layden Says Team Must "Earn" Championship Claim
Tomorrow afternoon another brilliant chapter in gridiron history will be written when Coach W. A. (Bill) Alexander leads his “Mighty Mites” of Georgia Tech, the greatest football magicians in the deep South, into the lair of the “Fighting Irish,” for what promises to be the thrill spectacle of the day! '
Gone from the line-up that tied Tennessee and Tulane for the Southeastern conference championship last fall, and which later climaxed a great season by tcppling Missouri, Bix-Six champions, in the Orange Bowl game on New Year’s Day, are such vaunted stars as “Buck” Murphy, blocking back and last year’s captain; Howie Ector, a brilliant field general; and two stalwart tackles in “General” Wood and Eston Lackey. However, Coach Alexander needs no wailing wall, for his razzle-dazzle offense is once again in the capable hands of the greatest sleight-of-hand artists the Wrecks have had in many years.
Johnny Bosch---Dynamite
The spearhead of this Houdini style of attack is little Johnny Bosch, 140 lbs. of dynamite, who explodes without the slightest warning. This “Mighty Atom” won the respect and admiration of both Notre Dame team members and rooters alike, when as a sophomore last year he put on the great-offensive show seen by the Irish all season. Rounding out this versatile backfield are Bobby Pair, Bobby Beers, and Ray Goree, light men, but greyhounds in an open field. Ralph Plaster, hard-hitting fullback, out with injuries last year, holds sway at the blocking back position, while Joe Bartlett, a converted end and question mark now, may still prove to be an ace-in-the-hole.
Up front, Coach Alexander finds himself faced with veterans at every position save tackle. Bob Ison and George Webb are rated the finest pair of wingmen in the South. Both are excellent pass-receivers and great defensive ends.
Captain Neil Cavette, an expert punter, and Bob Aderhold are fixtures at the guards, while Jim Wright stacks up as the number one center again. “Red” Meurth and Elmer Dyke have moved up from rhe reserves to fill in at the undermanned tackle slots.
Irish Line Indefinite
Making preparations for the invasion of the “Yellow Jackets,” finds the definite Irish starting line-up something of an uncertainty due to the shortcomings of the team as a whole in last week’s opener against College of the Pacific.
“The boys evidently thought they were at a tea party, judging from the caliber of the blocking and tackling,” said Coach Elmer Layden. “The squad saw a premiere Friday night, but they certainly didn’t put one on Saturday afternoon. Evidently Pacific didn’t have much respect for the new ‘National Champs,’ judging from the way they dumped them all over the field. It’s the first time to my knowledge that a second team has ever been picked as National Champions before the season ever began. We’ve got to earn the right to that title, and the only way we can do it is by knocking ’em all off. Tech is tough! They’re all tough! We can’t afford to make such mistakes as we made last Saturday and still expect to win! We’ve got to battle all the way! We can’t relax for a. second! Pacific, though woefully outnumbered, kept right on running, and if the same sleeping sickness hits the squad that afflicted it last Saturday, Tech will run us right out of our own ball park!”
Tech Is Tough
The challenge has been issued. Tomorrow, the Irish meet a foe strong enough to knock them from the ranks of the undefeated before they even turn in a major victory! Tech will fill the air with footballs and attempt to bewilder Irish linemen with hocus-pocus. Can they do it? Tomorrow will tell.
Statistics: Tomorrow’s meeting will be the eleventh between the two schools with Notre Dame holding a nine to one edge in the victory column. The officials for the game will be: Referee, John Getchell (St. Thomas); Umpire, H. G. Hedges (Dartmouth); Linesman, Joseph Lipp (Chicago); Field Judge, Herb Steger (Michigan).—Jim Clemens
The Tentative ;a
Notre Dame	P
DOVE .................Le
GALLAGHER ...........Lef
P. KELLY ............Lef
OSTERMAN ..............C
GUBANICH .........   Rid
LILLIS .......    ..Rigl
O’BRIEN .............Rig
HARGRAVE ........    Qu:
SAGGAU ...........  Left
JUZWIK ..........  Right
: ioi
< ’ac ! rUi • er. j Ju: . ,’ac Ei :rb; tlfl ilfl ?ac
PIEPUL (C) ..............
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
17
ICIANS ARE BACK
Splinters From the Press Box
-■■ -JAMES NEWLAND— ■	=
.arting Lineups:
ion	Georgia Tech
2nd..................... ISON
'ackle............... SANDERS
Juard............. CAVETTE	(C)
er.................... WRIGHT
luard............... ADERHOLD
,’ackle............. ANDERSON
End..................... WEBB
!rback.................. SHAW
tlfback................ BOSCH
ilfback................  PAIR
jack................... GOREE
Pete Kelly
Out of the deep, deep south comes Georgia Tech’s Ramblin’ Wrecks intent on wrecking Notre Dame’s chances for National Championship supremacy. Out of the south comes this team of Dixie Flames which last year scorched the local turf with such amazing mystification, the caretaker of the Stadium wondered if a resodding job would be necessary. Yes, these boys from the cotton belt are always tough—especially against the Irish. They’re small, but they’re mighty and tonight you can sleep, rest assured that tomorrow you will be treated to one of the most puzzling, perplexing, unorthodox football show you will see all year.
Little Johnny Bosch, probably the greatest field general Coach Bill Alexander has developed in more than a decade, will thrill a near-packed stadium of fans tomorrow — make no mistake about it. For this little stick of football dynamite, whose leg drive and accurate passing from either a set position or on the run is a sight to behold, gives to the Wreck’s backfield that certain something seldom seen on any team. He is a dependable punter too, and his ability as a quick-kicker is well known to the Fighting Irish.
Of all the visiting flankers to see action here last year, men who know football best have given Rob Ison, Tech’s 6-foot 2-inch, 210-pound right end, the blue ribbon. His pass-snatching last year was superb and his mastery of Tech’s famed end-around was the Engineer’s main punch. Not only is this guy a potent individual when it comes to scoring, but he seldom makes mistakes on defense. He’ll be out there tomorrow and it is our guess he will make himself well known even before the game is very far along.
There is no need explaining the fact that football is a dead serious game in the south. It’s been that way for years— more so perhaps, during the last decade. They say the ball carriers “way down theah” tote the mail with amazing speed —the kind that makes the proverbial jack-rabbit sit up and take notice. All this may be true, but the Tech team will be given the supreme opportunity tomorrow to meet the fastest charging, biggest, bone-crushing fullback we’ve seen in years. It was a most impressive sight last week to watch Milt Piepul cut himself a. large, substantial slice of AllAmerican cake against a tired, but gal
lant College of Pacific team. The “Moose,” who more than ever proved Iris only fault is shaking off the seventh and eighth tacklers, electrified that enthusiastic premiere crowd. But that’s only the beginning. Watch him go tomorrow.
This column definitely would not be complete unless a word was printed about the fastest stepping right halfback Elmer Layden has coached in a long time. Steve Juzwik, who starred for DePaul Academy in Chicago, makes you yell a little louder with every chunk of yardage he churns away. Juzwik proved his worth scooting past Alonzo Stagg’s Tigers and his sparkling play gives to the Irish backfield a glow that will* shine more brilliantly as the season rolls on.
On paper, the Fighting Irish should win tomorrow—perhaps by a substantial margin. But football games are not played on paper, nor are they decided by past records. The Georgians, as does every other team on the Irish schedule, consider Notre Dame the biggest stumbling block on their schedule, which includes Vanderbilt, Auburn, Duke, Kentucky, Alabama, and Florida. On the other hand, Coach Elmer Layden will gladly and without hesitancy, tell you he is always afraid of Bill Alexander whether his team is rated high or low. As clever- a football general as ever visited Notre Dame, Alex won’t concede a game to any team—and he’ll tell you so.
Coach Alvin Nugent McMillin, of Indiana, better known to the football fraternity as “Bo,” before last Saturday said a toss of a coin would decide the winner of the Indiana-Texas game. As you know I.U. lost, 13 to 7. Bo’s “pore ’lil boys” had better practice up a bit on their coin tossing. Because before the season started the Hoosier pilot also said his games with Iowa, Michigan State, Wisconsin and Purdue would be decided that same way.
Picking Splinters--
Notre Dame over Georgia Tech
Cornell over Army
Duke over Colgate
Fordham over Tulane
Southern California over Illinois
Michigan over Harvard
Ohio State over Northwestern
Purdue over Michigan State
Southern Methodist over Pittsburgh Iowa over Wisconsin
18
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
INTRODUCING
ALBERT DEL ZOPPO ' " —
The folks down in Swissvale, Pa., think a great deal of Johnny O’Brien because he’s the home town boy who is making good at Notre Dame. A monogram winner in his sophomore year, a regular last year, and number one man for the right-end position on this year’s squad, Johnny O’Brien has really given his Irish friends something to cheer about. And many of them will be here to do some personal cheering when John lines up against Carnegie Tech on Oct. 19.
John O’Brien, when he attended high school, was one of those boys who dreamed of the day when he could play football for Notre Dame. But unlike most dreamers, Johnny set out to make his dreams come true. He worked hard and faithfully on Swissvale’s f o o t -ball team, and when he graduated he enrolled at Kiski Prep for a year. O’Brien’s name was on the football roster that fall, and before the season was over he had earned the reputation of being one of the most versatile players in Kiski’s football history. He played at tackle, fullback, and end, shifting from one position to the other wherever his services were needed. That year, with two present N. D. men — O’Brien and Joe Papa —playing on the squad, Kiski was undefeated.
Coach Elmer Layden didn’t bother shifting the Swissvale boy to various positions when he came to Notre Dame. “You’re playing right-end, O’Brien,” said Elmer. And right-end it has been ever since.
Johnny is a hard worker, a willing worker on the football field, always aiming to perfect his end play. And his efforts have not been unrewarded. Right now John is an excellent blocker, and one of the surest tacklers on the squad. What’s more he has developed an alertness at diagnosing enemy plays. So
much so that opposing quarterbacks usually stop shooting running plays around O’Brien’s end when they see their best reverses and sweeps losing yardage.
Johnny O’Brien likes to do other things besides play football. He likes to wear good clothes (he is elegant in a bow tie); he likes to dance; and he loves cod-liver oil. He has been drinking the fishy product ever since he sat on
his daddy’s knee, and no one can convince him that anything else but codliver oil has given him his perfect physique.
If we were to type O’Brien we would say that he belongs in the strong, silent class. He has very little to say around campus and saves all his troubles and joys for the ear of Walt O’Meara, his room-mate for the past three years.
O’Brien is a history major in the arts and letters school. But he is already planning to get some intensive business training in a business school when he graduates this June.
Cross Country Men Eye
National Meet Nov. 25
Music — the crunch of spikes on the cinder path — is in the air at Cartier Field. And it is permeated with an exhilarating note of enthusiasm. This well-founded optimism springs from the presence of a truly first-rate cross-country squad. In addition to a host of rugged sophomores and durable, Captain Joe Olbreys, several promising freshmen, Waldeck, Haley and Brehmer, have unexpectedly popped up.
The squad, with an increased accent on form, has been working out daily with an eye to entering the National Cross Country meet at East Lansing, Mich., on Nov. 25.
The cross-country course at Notre Dame originates at Cartier field. From there teh distance men trot past the biology building, once around St. Joseph’s lake, twice around St. Mary’s lake, and finally end their daily three and a half mile grind at the fieldhouse.
If Coach Bill Mahoney finds two quarter-milers to supplement Ray Roy and Dick Tupka and adds strength to the pole vault and hurdle departments, the Blue-and-Gold thinlies should acquaint themselves handsomely against all competition.
While on the subject of track it is interesting to note that the greatest distance runner ever to wear the Blue-and-Gold of Notre Dame, Greg Rice, has started intensive training at Cartier field for the coming indoor season.
—Frank L. Kunkel
On the Enemies' Trail
Those Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets will enter their battle against Notre Dame tomorrow with a batting average of .1000 for the 1940 season. In a tune-up game with Howard College Oct. 5, Coach Bill Alexander’s charges took to the air, their passes defeating Howard 27-0. Bosch, the diminutive stellar tailback and Ison were the spearheads of the Tech offense. Next Saturday Tech meets Vanderbilt. Later foes include Duke and Alabama.
Carnegie Tech, playing here Oct. 19, will be facing their first major opponent tomorrow when they meet the Crusaders at Holy Cross. The Scots have already had a warm-up game; they defeated Geneva College 21-0 on Sept. 28. Last week was an open date on Carnegie’s scehdule. Following their meet with the Irish the Skibos will meet Case School of Applied Sciences at Cleveland.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
19
Oct. 26 will see Notre Dame down in Champaign for their game with Illinois. Last week the Illini swamped Bradley 31-0 in their first game of the season. However, before Bob Zuppke’s boys meet the Irish they face Southern California and Michigan; the latter clash will again bring Tom Harmon in contact with the Illini who last year staged a major upset when they played inspired ball to defeat Harmon and company 16-7.
Notre Dame will again play away from home on Nov. 2 when they meet Army at New York. Army did not show much in their opening encounter in which they defeated Williams, 20-19 on Oct. 5. However the Cadets are slowly rounding into shape and pointing for that game on Nov. 2. Cornell, Harvard and Lafayette will face Army before the West Pointers meet the Laydenmen.
The other service school, Navy, will be Notre Dame’s opponent, Nov. 9, when the Irish travel to Baltimore. The Middies started their season by defeating William and Mary 19-7 on Sept. 28 and the following week they sunk Cincinnati 14-0. Princeton, Drake, Yale and U. of Penn, are previous obstacles to a perfect season before the Navy-Notre Dame clash.
Iowa will be a welcome rival on “Homecoming Day,” Nov. 16. The Irish are seeking to avenge last season’s 7-6 defeat but despite the loss of Nile Kinnick, the Hawkeyes still present a formidable opponent. This was demonstrated by a 46-0 victory which the Iowa boys rolled up over South Dakota last Saturday. Minnesota and Purdue are two of the big teams on the Iowan’s schedule before they meet the Irish.
At Evanston bn Nov. 23, Notre Dame will meet the powerful Northwestern eleven. The Wildcats are equipped with a wealth of backfield material and a fighting line. By Nov. 23 they should rech their peak. In their opening fray last Saturday they scored a 42-0 winx over the boys from Syracuse. Coach Lynn Waldorf, a Syracuse alumnus, will
LET MEDICO BE YOUR NEXT PIPE The wisest dollar you ever spent
lead his boys in battle against such opponents as Ohio State, Minnesota and Michigan before trying them against the Notre Dame gridders.
As a fitting climax to a tough schedule, on Dec. 7 the local team will battle Southern California at Los Angeles. This will be a game which Notre Dame has been anticipating to avenge two straight defeats at the hands of the Trojans. Southern Cal has started slowly due to the loss of a number of last year’s stars. They were tied by Washington State 14-14 on Sept. 28 and 0-0 by Oregon State last Saturday. These games have exposed weaknesses in the Trojan’s lineup which may offer just the chance that the Fighting Irish have been seeking.
Student Bowling League Will Start Next Week
Calling all bowlers — there will be a tournament in charge of Cyril TIusty starting next week. This is not a tournament for individuals, but a team tournament. Five men will be needed to compose a team. TIusty will receive team entries at the recreation room in the basement of Walsh Halil. Entries may be submitted any time between | ■ 12:30 and 7:00 p.m. Ten teams will I be required in order to have the tourna- i ment. Piizes will be awarded to the winning team and the runner-up.
—John Murtaugh
Canale Crowned Champ As Tourneys Near End
Dan Canale, mainstay of the varsity tennis squad, annexed another championship to add to his long string of titles last Thursday when he beat Olen Parks, 6-0, 6-3, 6-1 in the finals of the upperclassmen fall tourney. Parks, seeded third at the beginning the tourney, was expected to give Canale stiff opposition in the final match, but wilted under the annihilating attack of his opponent.
Although the entire tournament was
marked by heads-up tennis, the climax was reached in the semi-finals when Parks required five sets to eliminate Captain Jack Joyce, 6-3, 4-6, 3-6, 8-6, 6-1. The match started Tuesday afternoon, but with the score tied at two sets each, darkness forced the postponement of the final set until Wednesday. Parks came back in this set to rout Joyce and enter the final match. Canale, meanwhile, coasted to a 6-1, 6-1, 6-3 victory over Bud Ford, seeded fourth.
The lower bracket of the freshman tourney is still in quarter-final play, thus preventing the completion of play in this tourney. In the upper bracket, however, play has run true to form, with Bob Faught of Breen-Phillips qualified for the semi-final matches. Faught moved into the semi-fiinals with brilliant victories over Dick Klee, Cavanaugh Hall, 6-1, 6-2 and Joe Schaefer, Zahm Hall, 6-1, 6-0. The Cleveland lad is an overwhelming favorite to continue his winning ways and cop the championship.
Coach Walter Langford has tentatively scheduled a match between Faught and Dan Canale, winner of the upper-classmen tourney, for next week. Mr. Langford rates Faught as one of the best prospects of the year and the scheduled Faught-Canale match should be a close, hard-fought battle.:—Rag Donovan
Don’s Fiesta
Don F. Hickey, ’38, proprietor
STEAK SANDWICHES HAMBURGERS MEXICAN
CHILE CON CARNE FOUNTAIN SERVICE «
Drive In and Table Service
"The Mosta of the Besta at Don’s FiestJ1
420 LINCOLN WAY WEST
3 blocks west of Michigan Street out La Salle Street
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
20	THE
What Happens to Football
Heroes After Graduation?
Cheers rose from the Notre Dame stadium last Saturday, and again tomorrow there will be a great clamor within the brick bowl. From the warlike whoops and shrill cries such names as Piepul, Gubanich, Saggau, Gallagher, and Juzwik will ring out above the mighty din. These men are the 1940 Fighting Irish.
Last year and in years past the cheers went up for other men clad in the blue and gold. The names of Sweeney, McCarty, Sitko, Beinor and Sheridan sound familiar to upperclassmen. These former Irish stars and their teammates are still carrying on Notre Dame’s tradition for clean, hard fought football although they no longer roam the Stadium’s greensward.
Joe Beinor, who was All-American tackle for two years (1937-38), is still wearing his cleats. He is one of the stalwarts in the line of the Chicago Cardinals. Among his teammates are Joe Kuharich, outstanding guard in ’37, Mario Tonelli, fullback from 1938’s high geared machine, and Lou Zontini, last year’s right halfback. Paul Kell, one of Beinor’s running mates, is wearing the colors of the league leading Green Bay Packers.
It’s all in the name: Earl Brown, Joe Benda’s All-American end of 1938, is an assistant coach at Brown University. His teammate, Joe Ruetz, is assistant coach at St. Mary’s in California. Bill Hofer, the unknown back who ran wild against Northwestern in 1938, is one of Dr. Eddie Anderson’s assistants at Iowa. Others of that 1938 power house in the coaching profession are: Herman Burnell, ’37, at South Bend Catholic Central; Augie Bossu at Chaminade High School in Mineola, Long Island; and Jim McGoldrick. Jim, an ex-captain and star guard, is helping Jake Kline coach the freshmen, and is attending law school in his free time. Another of Coach Kline’s aides is Alan Mooney, big rangy center from last year’s squad.
Notre Dame football players don’t all become coaches although we have four “pigskin preachers” from the 1937 squad. Ennio Arboit at Spaulding Institute in Peoria, HL; Gene Ely, ’37, at St. Mary’s in Michigan City, Ind.; Pat McCarty at Ursuline High school, Youngstown, Ohio; and Proviso of Chicago is proud of the grid feats of their coach, Andy Puplis.
As mentioned before, not all of Elmer Layden’s boys become coaches, and here’s proof — Harvey Foster is a G-man in Puerto Rico; and Dennis Eman
uel is attending Iowa Medical School. All-American Chuck Sweeney, ’37, is working with an oil firm in South Bend.
And now turning the pages of time nearer the present we come to last year’s squad and we find five more high school coaches: Ex-captain Johnny Kelly is in far away New Milford, Conn.; Little Benny Sheridan (Southern Cal will be glad Benny received his diploma) is at South Bend’s new John Adams High. All-American Bud Kerr is leading the future All-American hopefuls in nearby Goshen. Chuck Riffle is now in another Congregation of Holy Cross school, Vincentian Institute in Albany, N. Y.; Center Johnny McIntyre is leading the grid-ders at Crystal Lake, Ill., high school.
Steve Sitko, blocker de luxe, is connected with the Goodyear Tire Co., in Jackson, Mich. Joe Thesing has an aristocratic title, “Athletic Director of the Fenwick Club” in Cincinnati. Frank “Boody” Albert is coaching at Christiansburg, Va., high school; and Johnny Kelleher, ex-signal caller, is attending Jefferson Medical School.
Conflicting reports arise concerning the activities of last year’s varsity guard, Joe De Franco. An item in a reliable metropolitan daily has him playing with
LEARN TO DANCE ★ IMPROVE YOUR DANCING
Class or Private Instruction
CALL 3-4079
We teach thorough foundation and the very latest steps in ballroom dancing.
Maxine Mollenhour School of Dancing
320 W. Jefferson	South Bend, Indiana
Come in to our upstairs shop and let us show you fine suits and coats in a variety of materials and colors____at a price that you can pay.
Or talk to our campus representatives and have them bring you down to look around...
Capt. Milt "Moose" Piepul — 107 Alumni John Ryan — 337 Walsh
PARKER-WINTERRO WD IISy2 - H7y2 N. Main Street

the champion Hawaiian Polar Bears— but a very reliable campus source tells your editor that he “saw” said Joe De Franco at Notre Dame for the College of the Pacific game and that Joe is working as a metallurgist in Weirton, W. Va., his home town.
Some of our star footballers have entered into the business world; for example, Charles O’Reilly and Leonard Skoglund of the 1937 squad are working for firms in Chicago. Another of the ex’s whose efforts are devoted to training younger boys is Walter Marshall also of the ’37 team. Walt is engaged by the Coal Township high school in Shamokin, Pa.
Even Hollywood gets a share of the former ‘Fighting Irish”: Adrian Race, also ’37, is working at M-G-M Studios.
—Bill Reynolds
The Skibos Are Coming
Hoot mon — the kilties are coming. Carnegie Tech, sparked by George Muha, will be trying hard to pull an upset next Saturday to avenge a 7 to 6 setback suffered last year. Although the current outlook is not too bright for the reason that the Skibos have lost 16 lettermen
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
21
THE
from last year’s squad, they still have a way of pulling upsets at the most unexpected times.
The spearhead of the running attack will be the hard charging Muha aided by Frank Jordano who is held to be an even better passer than Merlyn Condit, last year’s star. Paul Friedlander, the much publicized quarterback because of the revolution he almost caused in the Friedlander-Getchell fifth play debate, will be back after a year’s absence.
In the line it’s Pete Dobrus a tackle and Ted Fisher an end who will bear watching. Fisher has the knack of pulling down Muha’s long passes, and Dobrus has been a thorn in the side of opposing coaches all over the country.
While Carnegie has won only 4 out of 17 games in the Scotch-Irish series, from the upset angle they are the team to watch. Because of a woeful lack of reserves, Carnegie will depend largely on their starting eleven. This should be a game which centers around the ground attack of Muha and the aerial attack of Jordano.—Joseph Lafferty
Piepul, Saggau Appear On Vox Pop Program
Notre Dame grid stars Milt Piepul and Bob Saggau had to do more than play football over the week-end of the College of the Pacific game. On Thursday night preceding the game they were called upon to face a radio audience as guests on “Vox Pop,” being broadcast from the lobby of the Oliver Hotel.
Besides answering the questions of Parks Johnson and Wally Butterworth <on the team’s prospects this season, each -was asked to guess how many different ways there were of scoring 20 points in -a football game. Saggau, who appeared ■ during the first part of the program, gave ten as a rough approximation, while Piepul during his appearance later on estimated that there were about 16 or 17 different ways. The correct answer turned out to be 16.
Throughout the broadcast, the lobby and mezzanine of the hotel were thronged with noisy spectators eager, to catch a glimpse of visiting celebrities as they left for the banquet on the Notre Dame campus. Some of the visitors, including Pat O’Brien, Ronald Reagan, Gale Page, Jimmie Fidler, Charles Ruggles, Donald Crisp, and Franklin D. Roosevelt, Jr., stopped to say a few words on the program. Ronald Reagan, following his bit, talked briefly with Piepul and Saggau about this year’s football set-up.
The payoff came when both Milt and Bob were presented with a can of smoking tobacco as a gift from the sponsor.
—Carl Rohrer
Interhall Grid Battles
Will Begin This Sunday
New talent will be revealed here next Sunday as the interhall football season gets under way. New equipment was passed out this week and the coaches, who are students in the Physical Education department, have been teaching new plays and formations to their teams in preparation for the opening day.
The Interhall football program has been worked to a point near perfection and will be so demonstrated when the first games get under way at 9:30 a.m. Sunday morning, Oct. 13. At this time the teams in League I, composed of hall teams from their section of the campus, will meet as follows: Cavanaugh vs. Brownson; Carroll takes on Breen-Phillips; and St. Edward’s runs up against Zahm. League II, from the other side of the campus, will be matched at 1:30 p.m. in this fasliion: Howard vs. Walsh; Lyons vs. Dillon; and Morrissey vs. Sorin. The scene of action will be Car-tier field.
Predictions of outcomes of these games are difficult since most of the teams have shown that each has its crop of stars. Coach Nowicki’s Cavanaughites have shown ability but on the other hand nothing can be said which would detract from the prospects of any of the rest of League I teams. In the other League the first thought in mind will be to eliminate St. Edward’s, the defending champion.
A special training table will be set up in the dining hall for the two teams who will participate in the final game. This final contest will be played in the stadium. An added incentive to all, win or lose, will be a grand banquet for all participants at the end of the season. Efforts are now being made to obtain a suitable speaker, and the trophies and medals will be awarded at that time.
Publication of the schedule for each Sunday’s games will be announced that week.—F. “Slush” Richards
HflnDKERCHIH TEST PROWS wrni zone nwmvs sponESS^f
IT'S CISIIH SE1LEB
Always dean and free from goo no matter how often you smoke it. Challenginghigher* priced pipes in briar quali-^jussH ty and value.>
WM. DEMUTH & CO, NEW YORK
RICH CM HISS IESSH SUB
University Band Plays At Next Two Grid Tilts
While the majority of the student body stopped for a breathing spell after last week’s hectic experience, the Notre Dame band continued to march along without the slightest hesitation.
As there will be no visiting band, nor celebrities, for the approaching games with Georgia Tech and Carnegie Tech, the band will take full charge of the between halves activities. There is also one or two trips in view for the present season.—C. S. Coco
"Life of Rockne"
By Harry Stuhldrehr
With illustrations, from Warner Bros.’ “Knute Rockne - All American.” The first edition sold for $2.50 — NOW
50e
"T. E. B's Year Book"
A collection of verses well known to readers of “The Wake” —
25c
"Lessons in Liberty"
By Dr. Clarence Manion of N. D. Constitutional Law Faculty
Should be “required reading” for every American —
$1.50
N. D. BOOKSTORE
Badin Hall
c
HEHOURRD miLflno

22
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
A NEW LOW PRICE . . .
for the Same Fine Quality
THE OLIVER COFFEE SHOP—traditional favorite of NOTRE DAME MEN— announces these new prices on a special afternoon and evening menu . . .
SANDWICHES — on toast if desired
Grilled Hamburgers on Bun	Baked Ham on Bun-------------15c
with Sweet Relish ________10c Cheeseburger, served with
Ham Salad __________________10c French Fries _________________20c
Egg Sandwich _______________10c Chicken Salad ________________20c
Barbecued Beef or Pork______10c Grilled Pork Chop with
Toasted Kraft American	French Fries _____________25c
Cheese Sandwich___________15c Bacon and Tomato _____________25c
Tuna Fish Salad_______________15c Tenderloin Steak, French Fries..75c
Italian Spaghetti and Meat Balls__________________________________35c
Chicken Chop Suey with Chinese Noodles____________________________40c
SALADS — Served in wooden bowls
Cole Slaw______________________10c	Fresh Fruit __________________20c
Potato Salad __________________10c	Tomato stuffed with Tuna	Fish..25c
Chef's Combination ____________15c	Fresh Gulf Shrimp Salad________35c
BEVERAGES —
Fresh made Coffee ______________ 5c	Malted Milks	________________15c
Milk, bottle _____________1____ 5c Tea, green or black_______________ 5c
Buttermilk, bottle______________ 5c	Iced Tea, tall	glass__________10c
Chocolate Milk Shake____________15c	Coca Cola _____________________ 5c
This menu to be served from 2:00 p. m. to 5:00 p. m. and from 9:00 p. m. to 1:00 a. m.
Stop at the Oliver the next time you are downtown .... we have yet another surprise for you!
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
23
MAX ADLER
"ON THE CORNER"... Michigan at Washington
Mass Calendar: October 13-19
New stripes, new checks, new colors, new combinations — patterns by Arrow’s style scouts that’ll win you heaps of compliments. Our new selection for the 1940-1941 season will show you why everyone on the campus is saying
It's Adler's for Arrows!
"He’s not so dumb, Peg.
Tab
Long point
Neophyte Nonsense
Note to pledges: No matter what the assignment you’ll never look ridiculous in an Arrow Shirt and Arrow Tie. They’re happily combined to go together.
Arrow Shirts for fall are new and different. Exclusive patterns, new collar models and new colors. Expertly tailored the Arrow way; topped with the authentic Arrow collar.
Join the Arrow Fraternity today for $2.
ARROW SHIRTS
Sunday, 13 — Twenty-second after t Pentecost. 2d prayer, St. Edward, King, Confessor, 3d, the Saints (a cunctis), 4th, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Monday, 14—St. Callistus, Pope, Martyr. 2d prayer, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Tuesday, 15—St. Teresa, Virgin. Mass: Dilexisti (in Common) Prayer proper. 2d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Wednesday, 16—St. Hedwig, Widow. Mass: Cognovi (in Common). Prayer proper, 2d, the Saints (a cunctis), 3d, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers. Votive or Requiem.
Thursday, 17 — St. Margaret Mary Alacoque, Virgin. 2d prayer, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
Friday, 18 — St. Luke, Evangelist. Credo. Preface of the Apostles.
Saturday, 19 — St. Peter of Alcantara, Confessor. 2d prayer, Against Persecutors and Evil Doers.
man we know
The Arrow Style Scout skips all over the world looking for new shirt ideas. The fruit of his journeying is right here on our shelves: the' handsomest patterned shirts you ever set eyes on, perfectly tailored by Arrow. Come see them today.
. up

24
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Specializing in the examination of the eyes.
DR. E. J. CAIN
OPTOMETRIST
Successor to
ROGERS
Prompt Lens or Frame repair service in our own laboratory.
212 S. Michigan St. Phone 4-8251
At the corner of Colfax and Michigan you'll find
Hans-Rin+zsch Leather Shop
We can help you with your gift problem — You make your selection and we will wrap and mail it to.any place you wish.
• Gloves
• Luggage
• Handbags
• Toilet Sets
• Zipper Bags
• Billfold Sets
• Manicure Sets
• Dressing Cases
HansA Rintzsch
GLASSES CORRECTLY FITTED
J. BURKE. O.D.
W. G. BOGARDUS, O.D. E. C. BERRY. O.D.
Optometrists and Mfg. Opticians
228 South Michigan St. South Bend, Ind.
Drive Safely and Save a Life
MUSIC
By John W. Larson
It is the opinion of this column, not entirely original, surely, that liturgical music in a majority of American Catholic churches is in supremely incompetent hands. It is true, there is a small interest in the movement towards the restoration of plain chant in our liturgical services. Too, there are here and there valiant efforts—sufficiently hidden as to cause no stir—to provide music for the Church which is not entirely engulfed in secul-larism. But, we continue to approach a degeneration comparable to that existing in the time of Palestrina.
Must we, for example, be compelled to hear Schubert’s Ave Maria, throating tremulously from the pipes of the grand organ, at every Catholic wedding? Or at Benediction, do we have to suffer the agonies of distraction with Wagner’s Song to the Evening Star, or Tschaikow-ski’s None But the Lonely Heart? (One hears that now dusty relic of the movie house, the monstrous Wurlitzer, glaring in its gilt edges and grotesquely laden with artificial lilies).
I do not condemn these things as music (though that would be an easy enough business), nor do I wish to appear lacking in charity for the parish organists of the nation . . . they are children of of God, all of them, and I respect and cherish them as such. But I cannot admire them as directors of sacred music. They would not, had they a shred of interest in either the Church or their positions, be dragging us through the sickening mire of this watery secularism.
And how will it all end? It will probably end with Chopin’s Nocturne, given new life by Eddie Duchin, sung next Sunday in hundreds of churches, each of which boasts its favorite lady soloist. This will continue ad nauseum, until even those who have been satisfied to justify this sort of music in the church on the basis of its power to inspire religious sentiments in the faithful will cry out in bitter anguish, “Enough!”
We do not demand the impossible. We are not asking a volunteer choir to give Palestrina’s Pope Marcellus Mass; we are not pleading that the average organist play Bach’s G Minor Fantasy and Fugue as a recessional. But we do insist that there is much easy music, written for the liturgical services of the Church, which any ordinary choir and organist could manage without superhuman difficulties. In fact, we see no reason for eternally slopping along in the Church with Wagner, Schubert or Carrie Jacobs
LOST — Ladies Gold Wrist Watch. Please return to Rev. John Lynch, C.S.C., or P.O. Box 66. Lost Saturday between Breen-Phillips Hall and Library. Reward.
118 So. Michigan St.
THE ARISTOCRAT OF ALL PIPES
DUNHILL PIPES
Imported from England. A pipe that has been the choice of the most discriminating pipe smokers for centuries. In many shapes.
$10
Conveniently Located in the Lobbies of
HOTEL HOFFMANN
HOTEL OLIVER
HOTEL LA SALLE
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
25
Bond. Naturally, it requires some slight intelligence and vital sensibilities to present music which will lend significance to the liturgy.
The entire criticism is not to be hurled at small churches. Large parishes, even cathedrals, have been guilty of inane theatricalisms. Good organs and choirs have been misdirected and perverted. The director of music fancies himself a composer, and so he throws out the liturgical beauty and vitality of the chant for one of his own lifelessly florid masses. Spectacular as is Hollywood’s Warner, he pales into a shadow next to the cathedral organist who, for Christmas and Easter, hauls in half the city’s symphony orchestra and the opera company’s leading tenor. The tenor, who has the inevitable bell-like voice, can always be prevailed upon to ring out with Silent Night.
Among other things, Pius X has written his Motu Proprio concerning church music: “It must be holy, and therefore avoid everything that is secular, both in itself and in the way in which it is performed.”
—John W. Larson
Sycamore Tree Suggests
Ancient Indian Story
How observant are you? Have you ever noticed that odd-shaped sycamore that stands back of Corby Hall? It looks like a hand — a hand outstretched in a pleading gesture, doesn’t it?
Many years ago when Notre Dame was first founded an old Indian, a chief of the Pottawatomies, came daily and stood for a few minutes gazing intently at this queer shaped tree and then left as silently as he came.
Once he told the reason for his visits. On this spot many years before a revengeful white man had killed a close friend of the old chief.
An old Pottawatomie fishing in the lake was the white man’s victim. Blood flowed freely from the knife wound in the old Indian’s back and stained the ground beneath his lifeless body.
On the spot where the blood had flowed a tree grew — a sycamore, in the form of a human hand begging for mercy.—joe Stephen
Sami. Spiro and Company
Shirts, Handkerchiefs, Pajamas... Mansco Underwear
Most Begged, Borrowed and Bought Shirt at College
Where To Go
As part of its service to its readers, the Scholastic gives a short list of the student hangouts on a few campuses. We guarantee nothing; we recommend neither food, refreshment, nor floor show.
Pitt, Tuck shop; Drake, Kennel; Carnegie, Hot House; Michigan, Pretzel Bell; Colorado U., Buffalo Club; Penn State, Bat Cellar; Dusquesne, Boot and Saddle; ST. MARY’S, THE ORIOLE!!!
It doesn’t take a Gallup poll to show up the popularity of the Duke of Manhattan. For this is the white broadcloth that never develops a yellow streak, and hangs on to its shape, size and sparkle right through to the finals. Spenders buy it for straight good looks; others find its price so much better for the budget... $2. Your local haberdasher can heave-ho a stack of fresh Dukes on demand, today.
SIZE-FIXT
Average fabric shrinkage 1% trits MAN-FORMED shaped to masculine contours
COLLAR-PERFECT styled to stay set just-so
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
26	THE
DAN HANLEY
(Continued from Page 12)
Dan walks quietly and steadily across the front of the Church, enters his seat behind the huge pillar, and remains there until the two Holy Benediction services are finished. The freshmen at the first service, and the upperclassmen at the second service all note Dan kneeling upright, a quietly pious little man, intent only on the Object of his devotions.
For the past 13 years Dan has been
on the campus at Notre Dame, and he has seen many great athletes enter the University as greenhorns and leave four years later as famous men. In his neat little room in the gym, Dan lives a quiet, unassuming life, happy and cheerful in his work, and very encouraging to all who come into contact with him. As he walks through the gym each afternoon, Dan pauses to wise-crack or talk seriously with each athlete he encounters.
Intimately he knows them all, and they know him. Sometimes when he works
he seems to be dreamily reflecting—maybe on the mines of Michigan or the western plains, — or maybe he is reminiscing of the Great George Gipp or other noted athletes who have passed through Notre Dame, comparing them with the prospects now wearing the colors of Notre Dame, Our Lady. Peacefully, contentedly Dan does his work. His youthful spirit radiates about him as he walks across the campus often with Mike, the Notre Dame mascot, bounding before him.
—Frank McDonough
Add Zest to Your Daily Life Chew Delicious doublemint GUM
: ‘S^^d^lotsofdeKc.ous, long-lasting flavor.	t daily kelps
And chewing this healthful	aids your
:	;	to healthful, refreshing
:	DOUBLEMINT GUM every day.
BuyseveralpartagesofDOUBLEMINTGUMtoday

All Aboard For CHICAGO
First Train—6:00 A.M.
Last Train—Midnight
Every day 19 South Shore electric trains leave South Bend for Chicago. That’s frequent service. You’ll appreciate it again and again.
Keep this schedule in mind: the first two morning trains leave South Bend at 6:00 a.m. and 6:50 a.m. The third train leaves at 7:30 a.m. Thereafter, until 9:30 p.m., there is a train an hour leaving at 30 minutes past the hour. The last two trains leave at 11:00 p.m. and 12:00 Midnight.
For further information inquire of ticket agent, 301 N. Michigan street. Phone 3-3111.
TO CHICAGO 1— ■ FROM
SOUTH BENO
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
27
"Young Tom Edison" to
Appear on Movie Program
The feature motion picture presentation at Washington Hall tomorrow, will be “Young Tom Edison,” starring that versatile young actor who recently paid a visit to the Notre Dame campus, Mickey Rooney. In conjunction with this there will be presented a “March of Time” which will give a good analysis of the situation in the Philippine Islands.—Mark G. McGrath
Dr. Mizelle Will Teach Here
Among the additions to the faculty this year is Dr. John D. Mizelle. Dr. Mizelle has been appointed to an assistant professorship in the department of biology, where he will teach beginning zoology, systematic zoology and history of biology.
Dr. Mizelle comes to Notre Dame from Oklahoma A. and M. where he had been employed for three years. Prior to this he was at the University of Illinois where he was an assistant animal parasitologist in the division of animal pathology and hygiene.
Mizzelle received his bachelor of science at Louisiana State in 1932, and his master of science in 1933. He received his doctor’s degree at the University of Illinois in January, 1937. Dr. Mizelle did his research work on trematodes, a class of flat worms. His doctor’s thesis was “Comparative Studies on Trematodes (Gyrodactyloidea) from the Gills of North American Fresh Water Fishes.” An abstract of these was published in the American Midland Naturalist, September, 1936.
At the present time Dr. Mizelle is directing research of three graduate students and continuing his research in parasitology.
Dr. Mizelle has published a series of articles in this field. At present series entitled “Studies on Nomogenetic Trematodes” is in progress. The fourth in this series sub-titled “Anchoradiscus, a new genus of Tetranchinae” is in press. The fifth is now read yfor publication and is sub-titled “Parasites from the Stump-knocker, Sunfish, Euponotis mic-rolophus.”—Joe Stephen

Oct. 13, St. Edward's Day
Although Notre Dame celebrates the founding of the University on October 13, 1940, it was actually founded on November 26. However, the feast day of St. Edward, patron saint of the Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder of the University, is October 13.
Hour
a new
U^Water-®0® Ba
The LEE TEL $5.00
Will not only improve your Hat-i-tude but your appearance as well. It’s not the same old hat. The mirror tells the story.
Makers of the Aetna Insured Hat...$3.50.
LEE HATS
358 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK, N. Y. t*REG. U. S. PATENT OFFICE
The Knee Length Coot (LEFT) All eyes turn to this snappy little number J with stitching at bottom £ and cuffs. Water repellent Stormwind cloth—for any kind of weather. Rates a date with your dealer today.
$]Q50
(With Slide Fastener Front S11SO)
The "University Coacher" (RIGHT) Not only is this Alligator a style leader—but it gives the utmost protection, too! Yes, absolutely guaranteed waterproof! That’s especially important these rainy $750
AT BETTER DEALERS EVERYWHERE
THE ALLIGATOR CO., St. louis, Los Angeles, New York
HOW CAN YOU EXPECT TO "RATE” HER IF YOU DON’T WEAR ALLIGATOR?
ALLIGATOR mu/ //u/ceou& because . . . IT'S SURE TO RAIN'
28
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
RADIO
By John M. Coppinger
-V** * * *r
its
Any prep school youngster Knv absolutely vital in football. And it’s ust as vital in the telephone industry. Backing up the nation’s line of communication is Western Electric’s responsibility on the Bell System team. This assignment includes manufacturing telephones, switchboards, cable and thousands of other kinds of apparatus-purchasing all manner of supplies for the telephone companies— seeing that all these things are available when and where needed.
By handling this assignment, Western Electric helps to maintain telephone facilities at maximum efficiency —helps, when emergencies arise, to restore them in minimum time—and thus contributes to the efficiency and it of your Bell Telephone service.
Western Electric
. . . is back of vour Bell Telephone sen ice
An unusual set of circumstances last weekend served to bring home to this columnist several pregnant observations concerning professional radio work.
On Wednesday, Oct. 2, Vern Witkowski was approached by Mr. Sam Fuller, co-producei* of the Kate Smith Radio Program. Mr. Fuller asked Vern to obtain six “voices” to be used on the program. Vern did so. He chose six actors from the Radio Club whom he thought good enough for the work at hand.
The six tyros were in ecstasy. After all, the possibility of appearing on the Kate Smith Hour doesn’t come every day in the week so their joy was justified. They were eager to do anything that might definitely place them on the program.
They were told to report to John Adams High School at 9:30 a.m. on Friday, Oct. 4. They were to rehearse all day. To sacrifice a day of cuts from classes to participate in a star-studded, show was trivial.
Wearing their neatest suits and their nicest smiles they made their way to John Adams High. There Bob Welsh, another* co-producer of the show, welcomed them and assigned them parts in the dramatic sketch, “Knute Rockne — All American.” The parts weren’t big but they were parts on a coast to coast program. This was an apocalyptic “break” which comes but once in a blue moon to hopeful amateurs-
They ran through the show twice to get the continuity of it and a vague idea for interpretation. Then time was called for lunch. They were told to report back in one hour. Lunch was a bowl of soup.
Unmindful of food they hurried back lest they be late and keep the stars waiting. But their hurry was in vain. When they returned to the auditorium Sam Fuller took them to one side and spoke to them like a brother — arm around shoulder and all.
Then he broke the news. They couldn’t appear on the program! They weren’t members of AFRA (American Federation of Radio Actors). Mr. Ted Collins, head producer of the K.S.H. (You know!) wouldn’t take a chance on getting into trouble with the union by using unpaid amateurs on a professional program.
The theatrical brushoff was pleasant —but efficient. The_boys made it in time for their afternoon classes. And so goes the rocky road to success.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
29
Headquarters for COCA - COLA
ROP/KS FOR RRIOR
“The Huddle”
PIPE TOBACCO and CANDY
ENTIRE STOCK REDUCED AS MUCH AS ONE-HALF
Drink
icious and


Refreshing
Good things to eat... and ice-cold Coca-Cola. You see it everywhere, because the life and sparkle and taste of ice-cold Coca-Cola add something to food that everybody likes. Try it yourself..
Musical Masterpieces
Brahms—“Symphony No. 2 in D. Major”
—Eugene Ormand conducting the Philadelphia Orchestra, §6.50 complete
Beethoven’s — “Symphony No. 5 in C Minor”—Toscannini and NBC Symphony Orchestra, §4.50 complete.
Victor Records 50c
“Almendra” and “Cat’s Serenade”—Xavier Cugat and the Waldorf-Astoria orchestra.
Bluebird Records 35c
“Beat Me Daddy. Eight to the Bar” and “Falling Leaves”—Glenn Miller and his orchestra.
“We Three” and “Two Dreams Meet”— Yvette (vocal with orchestra).
New 1941 RCA Victor Presidential Model
SAVE $5.00
$9.95 RCA Victor Record Player
Double your radio enjoyment. This RCA Victor Record-Player records through your radio. Formerly §9.95. While our limited stock lasts, you save §5.
Largest Record Dept, in Michiana 9 Listening Booths Electric Victrolas Well-Informed Clerks
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by
Coca-Cola Bottling Company of South Bend
1107 Beyer Avenue
HODINS
/it wr* & /ch a h .
Open Tues., Thurs., Sat. Evenings
30
THE
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
FELLOWS....
VISIT OUR NEW MEN'S SHOP
Fingertip COATS $14.95
SEE THE SENSATIONAL NEW GLAS - TEX RAINCOAT by Paris $5.95
HEADQUARTERS FOR ALL GLAS-TEX
PRODUCTS
Corduroy coats $7.95. Other wool coats $8.95 and $10.95.
GEO. WYMAN & CO.
Burke is S.A.C. President;
Pep Rally Scheduled
Smiling Jack Burke, of Walsh Hall, was elected president of the S.A.C. in a strongly contested election last Wednesday evening. Jack is a Philosophy major and hails from Sioux Falls, S. Dak. This is not Jack’s debut as a man about the campus, for as a junior he was a member of the Dome staff, and of that highly respected society, the Wranglers. He will continue his loquacious career as a member of the varsity debating team this year. Gene Schumker was elected vice-president; Al Del Zoppo, secretary; and Chuck Stein, treasurer.
Chuck Stein, who was also appointed chairman of the pep rally, announces that our own athletic priest and handball champion of the Middle West, will be a guest speaker at the rally tonight. Warren Brown, and possibly Henry Mac Lemmore, sports writer, will also speak. Coach Alexander will be unable to attend, but we can rely upon a story from Elmer. After the rally the Glee Club will lead in community singing about the campus.—Ed Drake
Round Table Tryouts
The Notre Dame Economic Round Table will hold interviews for prospective members the week of October 14. Membership is strictly limited, but Juniors and Seniors from all colleges who are interested are invited to apply for admission. Bulletins as to time and place of interviews have been placed in each hall. For further information, see Mr. Downey or any member.
Mathematics Department
“Algebraic Logic” will be the subject of a lecture to be given before the members of the Mathematics Club in Room 104 Science Hall, next Monday evening at 8 o’clock. The lecturer will be Dr. J. L. Kelley of the University’s Department of Mathematics. Any one who is interested is cordially invited to attend.
Father Connerton Attends
Two Events for University
The Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., represented the University at the 100th anniversary celebration of the coming to America of the Sisters of Notre Dame de Namur, at St. Xavier’s Church, Reading, Pa., this week.
Father Connerton also represented the University at the Consecration of Bishop-Elect Espelage, O.F.M., D.D., at the Cathedral in Cincinnati, Ohio, by His Excellency, the Most Rev. Archbishop
McNicholas, D.D. Bishop-elect Espelage < will be located in the newly-formed See £ at Gallup, N. Mex.
Select your
DR. GRABOW PIPE
from the
largest pipe stock in South Bend.
Bruggner’s
Cigar Store
HON. MAIN STREET
IN THE J. M. S. BUILDING
The Natural N. D. Hang-Out

DrGRABOW
A sweeter smoke because Linkman's exclusive machine pre-smokes every Dr Grabow pipe with fine tobacco (Edgeworth).
MADE BY M. LINKMAN i CO., CHICAGO MAKERS OF HOLLYCOURT PIPES
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
31
Office phone 3-4822
OFFICE HOURS 9-12 AND 1:30-5 TUES. AND THURS. , 7-9
EDWARD F. SCANLON, D.D.S.
DENTIST
ROOM 1, MAIN COLFAX BLDG. SOUTH BEND, 129 W. COLFAX AVE.	INDIANA
DR. HARRY BOYD-SNEE
EYE. EAR. NOSE. THROAT
PHONE 3-1395
J. M. S. BUILDING
DR. O. J. GRUNDY REGISTERED PODIATRIST FOOT AILMENTS
434 ASSOCIATES BLDG.	PHONE 3-2574
DR. H. R. FRASER REGISTERED PODIATRIST
SHERLAND BUILDING PHONE 4-8989	SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
OFFICE 4-5661	RESIDENCE 3-4080
DR. R. F. LUCAS
DENTISTRY—X- RAYS
702 J. M. S. BLDG.	SOUTH BEND. IND.
DRS. PROBST AND SINGLER DENTISTS
405 ASSOCIATES BUILDING
PHONE 3-1254	- SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
SOUTH BEND
X-RAY LABORATORY
825 SHERLAND BUILDING
L.	E. FISHER,.	M. J. THORNTON.
M.	D.	M. D.
Telephone 3-4269
ROSE DENTAL GROUP
Leonard A. Rose, d.d.s.
Cyril F. Rose, d.d.s. Peter J. Rose, d.d.s.
623-629 SHERLAND BLDG.	SOUTH BEND
DR. LANDIS H. WIRT
ORTHODONTIST
ASSOCIATES BUILDING	SOUTH BEND. IND.
THE MUSIC BOX
ntto Colombia
“O m a s r c rto o r k s
This year Victor presents the most comprehensive set of discings ever made of college football songs, in four new albums covering Eastern, Southern Pacific Coast, and Big Ten schools. This last consists of three records representing all Big Ten colleges (including Chicago), and rendered by the All-American Glee Club under the direction of Emile Cote. The familiar melodies are very ably done in a well-chosen sequence, variety being achieved by contrasting tempos. This album will especially please those who chew ties and pace the floor during the long Saturday hours before the kickoff. Follow it up with that old favorite Larry Clinton recorded for Victor a few years ago—“The Victory March” and Southern Cal’s “Fight On.” This plate has a perfect combination and is still tops for swing.
* * *
ENTIRE STOCK REDUCED AS MUCH AS ONE-HALF
Masterworks Albums
Vaughn Monroe, who is getting better and better, has recorded a nice brace for Bluebird—“The Donkey Serenade” and “Salud, Dinero Y Amor” (Health, Wealth and Love). The “Serenade” is no Allan Jones job; Monroe rides out on this one, featuring the drums. The flip-over gets the nod, however. Monroe’s vocal is better and the ending is one of those Chick Webb solids that really sends you.
“Beat Me Daddy” comes in for a treatment now by Glenn Miller. If you’re familiar with Will Bradley’s version you may not like this one, but give it time to grow on you. Guitarist Jack Lathrop handles the lyrics with the entire band rocking the melody. This is no real boogie woogie record, but it’s good. The reverse is “Falling Leaves,” by Mack David and Frankie Carle. You will recognize immediately the same unusual chording that featured Carle’s “Sunrise Serenade.” This is a typical Miller arrangement of a lovely melody. (Bluebird)
For swing in a foreign language it’s hard to beat Ray Kinney and his Hawaiian Musical Ambassadors giving out on “Kaneohe Hula.” This is an authentic island melody done in fox-trot time. Don’t look for- sobbing guitars in this one. It’s solid. “Rhythm of the Waves” is on the reverse. (Victor)
If you’re a Dorothy Lamour fan, buy “I’m Getting Sentimental Over You” and “There’s Danger in Your Eyes, Cherie,” recorded by Bluebird. But I don’t think I would have enjoyed this record if I had not known what this sarong-stress looks like.—Felix Pogliano
Stravinsky—“Le Sacre du Printemps” (The Kite of Spring)—Igor Stravinsky conducting the Philharmonic-Symphony orchestra of New York was $8.00 NOW $4.50.
Tchaikovsky—“Symphony No. 5 in E Minor”—The Cleveland orchestra—Artur Kadzinski conducting, was $10.00 NOW $5.50.
Wagner—"Tannhauser Overture”—London Philharmonic with Sir Thomas Beecham conducting, was $4.00 NOW $2.50.
Columbia Classics were $2.00—now $ 1.00
Sihellius—“Swan of Tuonela”—Chicago Symphony, Frederick Stock conducting— 2 parts.
Beethoven—“Coriolan Overture”—2 parts —Dimitri Mitropoulos—Minneapolis Symphony.
latest Colmifbiii POPULAR RECORDS
Okeh-Vocalion—35c
“Beat Me Daddy, Eight to the Bar”— Will Bradley at the piano; new shipment-
“Goodnight Mother” and “Crosstown”— Dick Jurgens.
“Ferryboat Serenade” and “Same Old Story”—Frankie Masters.
“Tonight” (Perfidia) and “Never Took a Lesson in My Life”—Gene Krupa.
“The Bells of St. Mary” and "Darkness”
—McFarlane Twins.
“Lil’ Boy Love” and “One Look at You”
—Ray Herbeck.
HODIIIS //z WTH Wd/GA* .
Open Tues., Thurs., Sat. Evenings
DO YOU SMOKE THE CIGARETTE THAT SATISFIES
Definitely Milder, Cooler- Smoking decidedly Better-Tasting, Chesterfield is one up on ’em all
Smokers say that Chesterfield is the one completely satisfying cigarette. Everybody who tries ’em likes ’em. Chesterfield’s right combination of American and Turkish tobaccos is the best that money can buy.
Do you smoke the cigarette that Satisfies
••3
Copyright 1940, Liggett & Myebs Tobacco Co.
BETTER MADE FOR BETTER SMOKING
Every Chesterfield must conform to the one right standard of size and shape for a cooler, better-tasting, definitely milder smoke.
(Asseen in the new film "TOBACCOLAND, U.S.A.")