
EXCLUSIVE~ 
Use the *exclusive Campus Shop ,,vay to buy: Choose your apparel now, pay ... ONE-THIRD ONE-THIRD ONE-THIRD 
in June in July in August 
never a service or carrying charge ,,vE REPEAT, never a service or carrying charge 

WHAT COULD BE EASIER? 
---'-,,
~~:a 

LIER • amp11$~ho


-----~ 
ON TIIE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
march 6, 1970 notre dame, indiana

scholastic 
volume 111, no. 16 

Letters 
....................... . ·························································································· 4 
Editorial ............................................................................ ·-···-··························-·-5 
Markings A Mere Escutcheon / John Keys .................................................. 7 
The Week In Distortion ................................................................ 8 
The Indians of Brazil: A Continuing Story of the Americas .................... 10 Steve Brion 
Art Belongs to the Masters ................................................................................ 15 Bill Wilka 
An Appeal to the Academic Billboard .............................................................. 18 John Zimmerman 
The Conspiracy Trial: 6 Views ........................................................................ 20 
Departments 
Perspectives ························--··················--··-······--·-······-·· ·................. 26 
Artur Sammler: A Gentleman & A Scholar ............................ 28 
There was a leak in the johnny ·-·····································-······~·-30 
Watching Them Shoot Horses ...................................................... 32 
B is for Bobcat Brutality ·····--························-··········-·········-········· 34 
Movies ................................................................................................ 37 
Chicago ............................................................................................ 37 
Last Word ........................................................................................ 38 
Editor-in-chief Richard Moran Execu,tive Editor Philip Kukielski Managing Editor Michael Hendryx Art Director Michael Patrick O'Connor Associate Editors John Keys, Raymond Serafin Assistant Editors Pat Gaffney, Carolyn Gatz, Fran Maier, Tim O'Meilia Photography Editor Gary Cosimini Copy Editor Greg Stidham Assistant Managing Editor Phil Stark Sports Editor Terry O'Neil Contributing Editors Steve Novak, Steve Brion OontrilJUtors Michael Costello, Kevin Rooney, John Stupp Business Greg Naples Circulation Michael Malone 
Public Relations James Murphy Faculty Advisor Frank O'Malley 
Writers Jack Fiala, Phil Glotzbach, Don Kennedy, Tom Macken, Ed McCartin, MarilY.n Riordan, Bernie Ryan, Walter Secada, Martin Siravo, Joe St. Onge Copy and Layout VeAnn Patterson, Mark Richardson, Colleen Unger, Bill Wilka Business and Circulation Mike Casanova, Dan Hogan, William Pelletieri, Cliff Zmick Photographers Jim Hunt, Beth Malmsheimer 
The opinions expressed in the SCHOLASTIC are those of the authors and editors of the ScHoLASTIC and do not necessarily represent the opinions of Notre Dame, its administration, faculty or student body. Second class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The magazine is represented for national advertising by National Educational Advertising Services, 360 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 
10017. Published weekly during the school year, except during vacation and examination periods, the ScHOL\STJC is printed at Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. The subscription rate is $5.00 a year (including all issues and the FOOTBALL REvI&W). Please address all manuscripts to the SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. All unsolicited material becomes the property of the SCHOLASTIC. 

Biafra: Correction 
EDITOR: 

This is to inform you that a "quote" used by your magazine in its February 13, 1970 issue was a misrep­resentation of this organization's policies. It stated that Thomas S. Hamilton formed STUDENTS FOR BIA­FRAN RELIEF because he believed that the organiza­tion AMERICANS FOR BIAFRAN RELIEF, New York, was an inefficient group which was not able to adequately alleviate the conditions of hunger in the strife-torn Biafran enclave. 
Let me reiterate that the only reason for the separate establishment of SBR was and is because we believe that it is important to show a better side of the Amer­ican student. This is our chance to put emphasis on the immediately concrete and constructive activism of the youth of America. This is, of course, secondary to the goal of alleviating the conditions of hunger among the former Biafran people. 
We still do urge all students to continue to con­tribute to this campaign and most important -to write the President of the United States and their Senators and Congressmen demanding a greater effort by the United States Government in regard to the eastern sector of Nigeria. This end must be accomplished now and we certainly hope that students everywhere will help attain it. 
Thomas S. Hamilton 
Martin Scholarship Drive 
EDITOR: 

The Organization for Martin Scholars, founded in 1949, has given financial assistance to 22 black stu­dents over the past 21 years. The program was initi­ated by a St. Mary's girl, and its primary purpose is to attract black students to the college. However, this year we are expanding our program to include other minority groups. 
~e organization has been funded in the past pri­marily through the contributions of the St. Mary's student body. This year, we are seeking aid from various corporations so that we might be able to offer assistance to more girls. 
Still, much of our success lies with student dona­tions. Our annual fund-raising drive will take place next Thursday and Friday, March 12 and 13. Tables will be set up in Madeleva during school hours where we will be accepting contributions and pledges for our scholarship fund. 
The Organization for Martin Scholars 

On "The French Lieutenant's Woman" 

EDITOR: 
One of my friends sent me a copy of Vince Sherry's piece on The French Lieutenant's Wonian from the February 20 issue. I read it with mounting interest, several times in fact. I could ask numberless questions about it, but time, a short attention span, and failing health will permit only the following: 
1) How does one "inform a novelistic act"? la) What is a "novelistic act"? lb) Why is -never mind, it all gets too 
complex. Note the infinite realm for speculation offered by paragraph 3 alone. 

2) What, really, is a "configurement of the infinite life force"? Mr. Sherry opts for the "eternal person," of whom, I believe, there have been very few. Or none. 
3) How is it possible for a void to be well-ordered? 
To plunge into the abyss of form, myth, image ( oh, eternal earth-goddess!) which Mr. Sherry devises for us all is to test one's rhetorical stability, probably more rigorously than is wise in these uncertain times. It is enough to quote Mr. Sherry himself: "Matter is ignored; it will get its revenge." 
K. L. Markle 

P.S. To be just, Mr. Sherry does get 11 points for his choice of quotations, especially the Merwin, which was outstanding. 
E'rraturn The SCHOLASTIC erred in reporting last week 
that the Ree1·uitment Action Program received $22,000 from the Administration. The correct figure is $2,000. We regret our mistake. 
A Director of Expertise 
At this time of the year it is customary to decry the "ineffectiveness" of the out-going student govern­ment. We must hesitate in this coustom. In a one-year term of office it is difficult to produce and point to tangible accomplishments. Such accomplishments are the product of the cumulative effect of several terms and are visible only in retrospect. Seniors can recall pre-SLC days of curfews and sign-ins; days with no cars, no alcohol, and few women. Without being able to single out the accomplishments of any single student body president, we have come a long way from the idea of Notre Dame as a Catholic West Point. 
But curfews, cars, Budweiser and parientals were all gut issues on which every student was an expert. Hav­ing solved those problems, larger issues confront us, issues whose complexity makes them seemingly insol­uble: racial crises, academic and social reforms, defining the unique character of Notre Dame as a University both academically respectable and Christian. Perhaps the most pervasive and most subtle problem is the cultural estrangement of the student from established structures. To a great extent, these problems reflect both national and personal strife. The election of a new student body president will provide no panacea. 
Nevertheless, the next SBP must attempt to alleviate immediate problems and react with flexibility and sensitivity to emergent ones. He must be responsive to the gripes of students and imaginative enough to arti­culate solutions. He will have to be committed enough to his task to spend many tedious hours laying the groundwork for proposals which may be implemented only after he has left office, if at all. And he must be able to sidestep bureaucratic trappings and·the lure of subjecting subtle problems which affect people to "systems analysis," of both the technological and the ideological sort. 
All this makes for an impossible task, and after the election, a largely thankless one. The SCHOLASTIC believes that Dave Krashna comes closest to meeting the requirements of the office of student body president. As Human Affairs Commissioner and chairman of the Recruitment Action Program, he has accumulated ex­perience and demonstrated commitment. More impor­tantly, he has proven himself sensitive not only to the issues themselves but also to the people involved. 
As a black, Krashna would be in a psycholog­ically difficult position as SBP at a predominantly white middle-class Catholic university. The student body should not elect him with a view to expiating its own guilt over racism: the election of a black will not auto­matically dissolve racial tensions. But racism is the most potentially explosive issue at Notre Dame, and Krashna could be an effective mediator between the administration and black students. We assert this not simply because Krashna is black, but because of his experience in dealing with the problem here and be­cause he realizes the complexities of the issue better than any of the older candidates. 
There will be much rhetoric in the campaign about how the various candidates will, when they are elected, visit each hall to keep in touch with student thinking. Perhaps some of the candidates believe they would, but Pete Peterson is the only one who has recognized that the demands of the dual role as student and SBP do not allow the time. Peterson has many solid and realistic proposals in his platform. He would be an asset to student government; not, however, as the head of it. We do not feel that he has ever indicated an ability to handle the day-to-day job of SBP. 
Krashna's proposal to abolish the Student Senate demonstrates an awareness that, since tlie establish­ment of the SLC, the Senate has been neither legis­latively necessary nor personally responsive to the stu­dent body. By replacing senators with hall presidents, the second problem can hopefuµy be alleviated. SBP candidate Tom Thrasher speaks of streamlining student government, but he would retain the Student Senate to do research. The research function of the Senate has been proposed in the past, but relatively few senators have ever been enthusiastic enough about their job to do any research. Additionally, Thrasher demonstrates neither knowledge of University structures nor a sense of the importance of creativity in vitalizing campus life. In addition, Thrasher shows no ability to think conceptually about the University. 
No student body president will ever be able to drag an apathetic student body into ari involvement in Uni­versity issues. We can only hope for a leader who can attract to student government dedicated students who possess some expertise in dealing with student prob­lems. It is then up to the student body president to impart his own creative vision, to give direction to the expertise. The SCHOLASTIC believes that Dave Krashna is the most qualified SBP candidate. 
The second issue will be on sale March 11 at the bookstore and through your hall representatives. 





Juggler 
Subscription: 3 issues only $2.00 mailed off campus and out of town. Delivered on campus. Copies of the first issue will be included-subject to limited supply. 
Make check payable to: 
Juggler Box 583 Notre Dame, Ind. 

Name 
Address ...........................................____...______...__....__..........___ 
L--------~---------------J 

A Mere Escutcheon 
... the ·wise man looks into space) and does not regard the small as too little) nor the great as too big; for he knows that there is no lirnit to dimensions. 
-Lao-tse 

LoUIE'S as microcosm. Or even one small booth in 
the corner as the more microcosmic. Three of us and 
it will be pizza. And I must begin pl~t for I am not 
among sympathizers, I will demand half, I will demand 
with longing, disappointed eyes, I will demand with the 
benefit of an expertise unavailable to the common man, 
I will demand anchovies on half of ou.r pizza. That ap­
peared a reasonable compromise. Honorable before 
God and Man. 
Only the aficionado knows the superlative chicanery herein perpetrated. Only he will realize that man in all his technocratic splendor has as yet found no way to confine the taste of an anchovy to a semicircle of mazarella and tomato paste. The taste of a spiny salt­ball, rolled across the piers of Benton Harbor, is all pervasive. I smiled and Richard curled at me an upper lip: 
"Infamy! Dishonor! Why, thou owest Us another pie.'' 
'' 'Tis not due yet. 'Twas not my fault. Honor pricks me on. Yea, but how if honor pricks me off when I come on? Can honor take away the grief of a wound? Honor hath no skill in surgery, then? No. What is honor? A word. 'Tis insensible then? Yet, to the dead. Therefore, I'll none of it. Honor is a mere escutcheon. And so ends my catechism." 
A goodly answer but I am grieved, cut to the quickest by mine own hand for I am now the exploiter, the imperialist, and I am Fallen, and my fall becomes tragedy of the highest sort, the milky, murky expanse of tragedy dehydrated and blown into a new dimension to suckle modern man. 
I thus reduce all to an absurdity, do I not, by deny­ing the real tragedies, the dead of Song My, the Bra­zilian rain forest, atrocities leveled against the poor, the hungry, the weak across the planet? Reduction? Yes, 
March 6, 1970 
but in it the truest direction of tragedy and its most profound dimension. 
Poverty, War and their children are institutions; they are scientifically identified, and they submit beau­tifully to the mechanizations of politicians, legalists, moralists and carto~mists. But they have lost all power as tragedy because their faces no longer move, their eyes are glazed and petrified, the words no longer speak; they merely sound in the distance. Tragedy must seek a smaller place. 
Konrad Lorenz, a famous, if not universally accepted, expert on animal behavior, observes that laughter prob­ably evolved as the ritualization of a redirected threat­ening movement, as in the triumph ceremony of the graylag goose. Lorenz likes to talk that way. He is obscure in his subjectivism, he is perhaps extrapolating invalidly from his random observations and still he cannot mask the optimism he finds in man's ability to laugh. 
Humor held in common can be the greatest architect of the future, pulling men to an understanding un­attainable in the senates and star chambers of the powerful, publicly denuding the pomposity of the ideologue, counteracting the blind and uncritical enthu­siasms for molecular movement so characteristic of herd animals. Lorenz says simply that a sufficient humor will "make mankind blessedly intolerant of phony, fraudulent ideals." G. K. Chesterton suggests further that the great, creative religions of the future will be based on a more highly developed, differentiated and quite subtle form of humor. 
All this is to say only that new space must be carved from an old set of dramatic self-directions with both tragedy and comedy reshaped in the name of survival. It would mean a new life style of irreverence, sacrilege before the unreflective and unlaughing creations of man,. blasphemy in the face of all that does not breathe. 
And so ends my catechism -Baltimore :ff2, the little madras one. We used to have baseball games with catechism questions. Is God a spunky shortstop or a lanky southpaw? And if you didn't know you struck 
out.  I'm going to the dunes ­hopefully to laugh with  
my friends.  
7  




The vVeek In Distortion 
Your Silvery Beans 

Last week in Los Angeles nearly .005% of the world's supply of moon dust was stolen from a display at a charity dinner where it had been in­vited when Mr. Agnew declined a speaking invitation. 
Taken was a 2.3 gram (avoirdu­pois) sample of gravel about the size of a pinch of salt. 
The dust was quickly recovered but when weighed, scientists had in hand only 2.294 grams. They chalked up the difference to a pollen-hungry quota-deficient drone bee. 
The recovery was made by FBI agents working with local clairvoy­ants who accurately predicted that the thief and the moon dust would be found at a secluded lovers' lane in suburban Glendale, where a man and several children were filming their home movie version of The Ad­ventures of Peter Pan & Tinkerbell. 
Hats Off 

According to Newsweek~ Presi­dential press secretary Ron Ziegler announced last week that the White House police "will no longer wear their ceremonial hats"-those Rur­itanian black plastic jobs with gold trim that occasioned such mirth upon their debut four weeks ago. The formal, $90 white dress tunics sur­vive, but not the hats. Instead, the police will wear regulation blue caps with special white covers. The plastic numbers are being discarded, Ziegler said, because "the hats are a little too tight" and "I'm sure the President wouldn't want the guards to wear hats that were uncomfortable." He couldn't quite manage to keep a straight face through the announce­ment. 
Pornography 
Governor Edgar D. Whitcomb of the great and glorious state of In­diana has announced a contest, boys and girls. A "My letter to the Gov­ernor" Contest, to be precise. Grade­school children are being invited by their governor to write him letters, relating what they think "is great about Indiana." Winners receive a free trip to scenic Indianapolis, din­ner with Whitcomb, and a free copy of his book, Escape from, Corregidor. 
The contest is being sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce of Ken­tucky in conjunction with the Com­mittee for a Healthy Hoosier Hys­teria. 
So Much Chicken-! 
Georgia's Governor Lester Maddox had a few words to say last week to Michigan's Representative Charles 
C. Diggs when Diggs labeled Mad­dox's passing out of the autographed ax handles he had used to bar blacks from his Pickrick Chicken House in Atlanta as distasteful. Said Maddox: "I've never met a more big­oted, hateful man in mah whole life." 
Free Home Trial 
The fallowing is an ad subrnitted recently to the SCHOLASTIC: Would You Like to Become a Minister? 
Ordination is without question and for life. LEGAL in all 50 states and most foreign countries. Perform legal marriages, ordinations and funerals. Receive discounts on some fares. Over 265,000 ministers have already been ordained. Minister's credentials and license sent; an or­dainment certificate for framing and an ID card for your billfold. We need your help to cover mailing, handling, and administration costs. Your gen­erous contribution is appreciated. Enclose a free will offering. Univer­sal Life Church, Fort Lauderdale, Florida. 
Now it seerns we can buy that old­tirne 'religion. 
Conspiracy Come Home 
It was reported earlier this week that a Grand Jury in Dallas was in­vestigating a charge that Ara Par­seghian, Edmund Joyce, and several Notre Dame cheerleaders crossed state lines to incite a riot. The jury must determine whether there is a genuine relationship between the De­cember 16th pep rally and the skir­mish that broke outlate in the fourth quarter of the Cotton Bowl. William Kunstler has declined to handle the case, asserting that "I've had enough 
The Scholastic 

of these troublemakers." Neither Mrs. Parseghian nor Abbie Hoffman was available for comment. 
... Nor Snow nor Dark of Night 
Two men, believed to have been postal veterans still caught up in the mailman's ideology, disregarded in­clement weather in robbing a Roxton Falls, Quebec, bank last week. Fully armed, they sped into the town under the cover of the dark northern sky on a snowmobile, heisted $4500 as there arose such a clatter and sped off unharried across the luster of new-fallen snow. 
"Twaddle from Taipei ...'' 

Chinese Lunar New Year celebra­tions, which began two weeks ago, ended Sunday amid lanterns, poems, riddles, and a new wording of the Generalissimo's promise to take back the mainland. In accordance with the theme, "spring couplet," set by the Chinese Nationalists' Cultural Renaissance movement, Chiang Kai­shek's speech of last New Year was set to dactylic hexameter. 
The Loved Ones 

French law has taken the lead in :fighting for the liberation of that nation's women. Recently, a French appeals court ruled that concubines have the same rights as wives when the man in the house dies. 
Whatever happened to "Vive la difference!''? 
Gangland Gourmet 
New release from Ballantine Books for all the gourmets in the audience: The Mafia Cookbook. Among the recipes will be such del­icacies as Chicken Valachi, Eggplant Vendetta, and Bloodsausage Geno­vese. Plans now are to publish the book in two editions -regular cover ($2) and bulletproof cover ($100). 
Phony 
The American Telephone and Telegraph Corporation's well-known subsidiary -the Bell System ­announced last weekend that it has perfected a system of direct digit­dialing for phone calls between New York and London. The new system -requiring a mere 14 numbers (including area code) -costs $1.20 for a three-minute call. 
Now, if they can just figure out a way to perfect a system for calling from Manhattan to Queens.... 
Virgil & the Pie 
Pizza is generally considered to be an Italian food of relatively recent origin. Not so, says Prof. John Ades ofSouthern lliinois University. Pizza, he says, dates back to the days of the Roman poet Virgil (70-19 B.C.). Prof. Ades quotes from Book VII of Virgil's Aeneid: "Aeneas and his chief and captains ... placed cakes of meal along the sward, beneath the viands . . . and they crown the wheaten base with fruits of the field. . . . They turn their teeth upon the fateful circles of bread." 
"There you have it," Prof. Ades says, "Wheaten base, slender cakes, fateful circles of crust crowned with a mixture of food, in this case fruit; but the dearth of pepperoni in those innocent years can easily account for this culinary infelicity." ".Arma vi­rumque cano;' that's right gar!;on, without sausage. 
Fuzz & Ponies 
Off-track betting is, in New York, the most volatile of political issues. 
Far be it from us to impugn ·fae honesty of New York's finest. How­ever, last weekend someone in the central police headquarters in New York City was trying to help out his fellow-fuzz. The police teletype, which normally transmits such things as fires, traffic accidents, car­ried the selections of some unknown handicapper, who was making his choices for the races at Roosevelt Raceway kno,vn to the world. The picks were followed by the notation "disregard previous miscellaneous information." However, anyone play­ing all the selections on the wire would have made a neat $4.80 profit on his nine $2 bets. vVe may see calls for a return of the mysterious handi­capper any day now. 

WHel) FASOS~ 
COHcS ARc 'IOU 
EOI~ TO '5TAY ~ L.€AV61Hc cou~TR<t? 
\ 
1f 


M.N/86 IT:S 
W1ER TO 
HAV6 IT 
R~HT Wl~G­
\ 
1f 
FlRSTI'D 
WNJTTO 
566 WHAT c\/eR't'BODY'€LSf {X)f;S.
I 

LIOU MfMJ So P€Cflf WILL­
(<lJG'tu Wt\T 
IT5 FASClSH? 
I 

I 1ttlklk' IT HIGHT 8€ HDRf USeFUL.. TO Fl6lfT IT FR:t-< WrIBltJ 1li6 Sl{S­


1c;K. I 
1f 


/fJ GTTH6R c.AS5 ITS BOOWTO Be RePRcSSIVt, 
1f 


J D<lJTK~ IF 1ll5Y ALL.OW C(aJ1D FIGHt FASQSH 
FRCH WITH!~ 1He-S K. 

lF1HeR8'S A 
MNJVATe f~ 
RBPR6SS(OfJ,.WMi
CAkl 't'0U l?0 Z
I • 
1f 
1J 


R£PR£SS. 
I 

~OCfATlC 
FA5ClSH 
WDULO Be



HORE 
Uf3fRAC,. 
1ft


_..._ 1HAT'S DeHOCRAcY. 

I 
1 
j I"\ 

1f I 
~ 
t: 
Q 



March 6, 1970 




The Indians of Brazil: 
A Continuing Story of the Americas 
"The worst slaughter took place in Aripuana, where the Cintas Largas Indians were attacked from the air using dynamite. 
To exterminate the tribe Beicos-de-Pau. Ramis 
~ 


Bucarr, Chief of the Sixth Inspectorate, explained, an expedition was formed which went up the River Arinos carrying presents and a great quantity of food­stuffs for the Indians. These were mixed with arsenic and formicides." 
-The Brazilian Ministry of the Interior 
The Scholastic 

Chief Black Kettle of the Cheyenne, after being as­sured of protection, was surprised and trapped by a force led by Colonel John M. Chivington on the night of November 28, 1864. Ignoring Black Kettle's at­tempts to surrender, the militia shot, knifed, scalped, clubbed and mutilated the Indians indiscriminately until the ground z.vas littered z.vith men, z.vomen and children. 
THE PASSAGE, from a standard history textbook (The National Experience)~ describes genocide-the systematic extermination of a people-in the west­ern United States during the 19th century. Twentieth­century genocide has generally been more subtle and more sophisticated. But that passage almost perfectly describes what is happening, and has been happening for at least the last ten years, in the northern wilderness of Brazil. 
Brazil's Indian population is being systematically exterminated by the Brazilian military and by small private armies. The booty, as in 19th-century America, is land and minerals. But as with all genocide, the most guilty parties are removed from the locus of their crimes: hidden and protected. In this case, the parties are foreign corporations and landowners who want the Indians eliminated, and a Brazilian government with a paranoid fear of "Communists." And the ulti­mate cause may well be a widespread and pervasive corruption of the society that allows this to continue. 
THE BEGINNINGS of this slaughter go back all the way to 1500, when Pedro Cabal discovered Brazil, an area inhabited by three million Indians. The same story, with a few variations, was repeated all over the Americas; but the Portuguese conquistadors seemed especially adept and ingenious in their savagery. Norman Lewis, writing in Atlas magazine, states that as many as twelve million Indians were killed in these conquests. He quotes from the remembrances of a bishop who accompanied the explorers: 
The Almighty seems to have inspired these people with a meekness and softness of humor like that of lambs, and the conquerors who have fallen upon them resemble savage tigers, wolves, lions . . . They set fire to so many towns and villages it is impossible I should recall the number of them.... These things they did without provoca­tion, purely for the sake of doing mischief. 
The original Portuguese and Spanish settlers en­slaved whole tribes to work the sugar plantations, and 
murdered anyone who resisted. But all this was mild compared to the sadistic slaughter that characterized the Brazilian rubber boom in the nineteenth century. Indians were enslaved as rubber tappers, whipped con­stantly to increase their "efficiency," and punished by being whipped one hundred times if their daily quota was not filled. Recovery from these wounds took six months. Workers who were intransigent or hopelessly inefficient were murdered by their white owners. Lewis again quotes from the diary of a young American engi­neer who witnessed a number of such executions at the British-registered Peruvian Amazon Company: the na­tives were hacked in two or beheaded by macheteiros employing "a grisly local expertise." Apparently, In­dians were even sacrificed on great feast days. In areas where rubber companies wanted to open new trails, Barbadian head-hunters were hired to slaughter any local "wild Indian" populations; considered impossible to train. After these had been exterminated, stud farms were instituted to insure a constant labor force. 
The activities of the Peruvian Amazon Comp·any were exposed at the start of this century, just about the same time that the rubber boom in Brazil abruptly ended (new and better plantations had been founded in Malaysia). In its short lifetime, this one company had managed to murder approximately 30,000 Indians . . . although no one can be sure how accurate these figures are, Lewis writes. Discoveries such as these prompted the formation of the Indian Protection Service in 1910. Founded by Candido da Silva Rondon, with the most altruistic of motives (its motto: "Die If You Must, But Never Kill"), the agency degenerated soon after his death. 
130 OFFICIALS indicted in the last two years come largely from this agency ( which has re­cently been replaced by the National Foundation for Indians). But, as Atlas and the German Der Spiegel em­phasized, these government officials have usually been the hapless accomplices of a much more dangerous and sinister group--the fazendeiros or great landowners. For the last twenty years or so, the name of the game has been land, and the fantastically rich supplies of minerals it holds. The interior of Brazil is one of the richest areas in natural resources anywhere in the world. The fazendeiros owe practically all their wealth to the presence of foreign business and industry in Brazil ... corporations that want what that land holds and will pay well to get it. 
Thus, in the past several years, the fazendeiros and their large, well-equipped mercenary armies, have moved into the Amazon jungles and stolen vast areas of Indian land (including much of the Teresa Cristina In­dian Reserve). They have been sometimes aided and sometimes ignored by Brazilian government officials, all of whom until recently flatly denied the existence of any such groups. The methods used range from machetes, carbines and clubs to private planes with dynamite. (A Swedish anthropologist who exposed much of this, Lars Persson, reported in Der Spiegel that this fall Brazil had ordered "twelve Caribou airplanes with fit­tings for napalm bombs to be used in a campaign against Brazil's Indians.") 
Norman Lewis, again in Atlas (January 1970), quotes a series of statements and headlines that ap­peared after the first exposure of the slaughter: 
The Maxacalis were given firewater by the land­owners who employed gunmen to shoot them down when they were drunk. . . . The Nham­biquera Indians were mown down by machine­gun fire. . . . Two tribes of the Patachos were exterminated by giving them smallpox injec­tions. . . . To exterminate the tribe Beicos-de­Pau an expedition was formed which went up the River Arinos carrying presents and a great quantity of foodstuffs for the Indians. These were mixed with arsenic and formicides. 
Slavery still exists in the interior, where, according to the testimony of one Boror Indian girl, "There was a mill for crushing the cane, and to save the horses they used four children to turn the mill . . . " Leprosy is still widespread; and in the middle of the Amazon there is an island where old or sick Indian slaves are left to die. 
LITTLE or nothing has been said about this genocide in the Brazilian press-there is a general self­censorship, and a government ban on any writing detri­mental to the "peace and stability of the nation." Nothing, save for two small articles in Time (August 1961, May 1968) has appeared in the established Ameri­can press. Any real information must be gathered from publications such as Atlas or from the foreign press­Der Spiegel, London's Sunday Tinies, Tunisia's Jeune Afrique. 
The list of atrocities goes on and on; to ·document them would be to indulge in cheap sensationalism. But the fate of the Cintas Largas tribe-one of a group of holdout tribes in the Mato Grosso area of Brazil-must serve as representative. They had been fairly safe until the last two years, when deposits of rare metals were discovered on their lands. As Lewis writes: 
What these metals were, it was not clear. Some sort of security blackout had been imposed only fitfully penetrated by vague news reports of the activities of American and European companies, and of the smuggling of planeloads of the said rare metals back to the U.S. 
The extermination was organized by local gang leaders, who were able to destroy all but one village which was inaccessible on foot or by canoe. For that remaining task, they used a Cessna light plane loaded with dyna­mite. The pilot flew over the village during its annual fertility ritual, dropping packets of sugar to lure the frightened natives out of hiding. It then returned and dropped the explosives. "No one has ever been able to find out how many Indians were killed, because the bodies were buried in the bank of the river and the village deserted," Lewis reports. The survivors, who fled inland, were later located by a canoe expedition, tortured and massacred; the bodies were thrown into the Aripuna River. Lewis, who went to Brazil last year, got this information from one of the killers who was furious over the fact that he had not been paid the $15 he had been promised. The man later told Lewis: 
I want to say now 1.hat personally I've nothing against Indians. Chico found some minerals and took them back to keep the company pleased. The fact is the Indians are sitting on valuable land and doing nothing with it. They've got a way of finding the best plantation land, and there's all these valuable minerals too. They have to be persuaded to go, and if all else fails, well then, it has to be force. 
DAN GRIFFIN, managing editor for Ave Maria magazine, was a Papal Volunteer in Brazil for three years. His description of recent political history in that country illuminates the Indian situation, and raises a large number of even more disturbing ques­tions. The present military junta led by Emilio Garas­tazu Medici took over in 1968, after the death of Gen­eral Costa y Silva. Costa y Silva in turn had succeeded Castelo Branco, who had engineered the 1964 coup against the civilian government of President Goulart. Goulart, a long-time enemy of the generals had been pushing steadily for control of foreign investments and widespread land reform (which included appropriation of some of his own holdings). His government was also trying to pursue a more independent foreign policy­especially vis-a-vis the United States. The military, on the other hand, was paranoid in its fears of a "Com­munist" uprising among Brazil's poor. They desired ties with the United States; more importantly, they were and remain totally committed to encouraging in every way possible the increased presence of foreign investors in order to bolster the country's economy. 
The two military juntas have pandered to foreign businesses; the first Economic Minister, Roberto Campos, specialized in advising foreign investors. Moreover, they have created a secret police (the Department of Public Order and Security) and temporarily suspended civil liberties (December, 1969). The only publication that 
refused self-censorship (Veja) has been assigned a gen-
The Scholastic 


eral to overlook all news releases. A whole crop of "anti-Communist'! paramilitary organizations have grown up under the junta's auspices, including the MAC and the "Anti-Communist Hunt Commandos." This last organization, composed of members of the police and the armed forces, recently murdered a "leftist" priest and several student agitators (Common­weal, July 25, 1969). 
Twenty percent of Brazil's land is owned by foreign investors, the largest of which is the Boat Carriers Corporation, an American company. Most of this land is controlled by American and German corporations, and a recent issue of Nation spoke of "massive land purchases by American speculators." Most of this for­eign-controlled land also happens to be located in the areas where the greatest carnage is reported: the Mato Grosso, Minas Gerais and the Amazon Valley. Coinci­dentally, the United States seems to have played a large (and still mostly unexposed) role in the coup that ousted Goulart. The Goulart government asked this country for a loan. The request lay in Washington for over a year; one week after the take-over, the loan was approved. Washington sent a telegram to Rio de Janeiro congratulating the new government within hours of the coup. A Latin American correspondent for the Chicago 
~ ~ 




"""""""' 

Tribune apparently offered his paper's help in stirring up sentiment for the military. Within three hours of the military's march on the capital, an "international pharmaceutical company" offered all the bandages and medical supplies needed. Sao Paulo is filled with Ameri­can pharmaceutical companies. Nation (May 26, 1969) reports that then-ambassa~or Lincoln Gordon was very close to the military leaders who engineered the coup. The United States Brazilian mission now houses 900 American personnel-and this country pays $750,000 to train the Brazilian police. 
THE PRESENT military junta thus is apparently friendly to both foreign investment and the United States government. They have two large things ·in common: full recognition of the economic value .of Indian lands, and a paranoid fear of Communism. The second may also have something to do with Brazil's project of genocide. The military government is crack­ing down hard on leftist student and Roman Catholic organizations, especially since the Brazilian bishops' recent stand against its use of torture. (It is interesting to note here that the State Department and the CIA are also presently investigating the "Catholic left" in 
-~~~;,.~
/f~'?:~~~~ ' 
_~--::: •~..,.-r -.:•<: :.,_ 
i. #.  • .,-...  4••­ 
, ,.-~~-~-\  
~ ...'-~~­ 4 ­ --~"'-: :..:.-_.~ ~ -=•:;.,­ 

Brazil as reported in Commonweal) July 25, 1969.) The relevance of all this becomes terrifyingly apparent in the light of a statement from Der Spiegel: 
The reason given by some candid Brazilian offi­cials for the murderous extermination policies is that the Amazon Indians are uncivilizable and that there is a real danger they may become prey to Communist propaganda. 
Put them together: a twisted greed for land and its wealth (the same force that has generated many of the atrocities committed in the past by "imperialist" na­tions), plus a pervasive fear of Communism. These two together have often resulted in the wholesale extermina­tion of a people, in genocide. 
That nothing has been said ( except for a demand by over 2,000 European anthropologists that the guilty be immediately brought to justice) is horrifying but not, ultimately, surprising. The Brazilian government is no­where more efficient than in censoring news. It has also managed to throw up a facade of reform to hide the truth: it insists the criminals have been punished ( they 
14 

have not); it cites the establishment of Indian reserves 
(in one of these, an Indian civilization where "no one 
was ever punished" has now been equipped with a 
government-trained "militia" and a penitentiary); it 
has reduced the charges against the defendants to "a 
slight misuse of authority." The United States govern­
ment has said nothing, neither have the American cor­
porations who stand to profit most from any such land 
clearing. This too is understandable in the face of 
My Lai, cluster bombs and the American Indian. 
But what is more disturbing than the fact that the most guilty go typically unnamed and unharmed is the psychological disease that makes such a thing possible. Western man's undeviating obsession with land, and the great wealth that can be extracted from it, is horri­fying. Even more so when it becomes institutionalized in the form of large corporations or corrupt govern­ments. The bogeyman of Communism is spoken of as an enemy terrible enough to justify the killing of an entire people. The hunger for wealth (in this case 62 million dollars' worth of land) "necessitates" the extermination of a country's whole native population: "We are Christians," said one Brazilian, "and that land rightfully belongs to us." The "civilization" process of an Indian population requires that we destroy their whole culture and put them in reserves, penned like animals for exhibit. 
JOHN COLLIER, a twentieth-century reformer, char­acterized the American campaign against the Indians as "a collective corruption ... which reached deep into the intelligence of a nation." It is this same corruption, this same pervasive sickness that characterizes the genocide in Brazil: it is present in the Brazilian govern­ment that alternately aids and directs this genocide; and it is even more terribly present in the American and other foreign investors whose very presence at once generates and prolongs it, and who, for the shallowest of economic motives, are willing to profit from it. But nothing is said, and the genocide continues. Brazil's leading social historian has stated that by 1980 the Indian population will be completely wiped out. 
The horror of genocide is so huge that at times it escapes comprehension. The full fruits of this indulgence also tend to escape us: the dehumanization of the murderer, the death not only of the victim but also of the executioner. Genocide means the extermination of both sides; and the only people who refuse to see that are those who can stop it. The disease is fatal; it is only a question of time. Seattle, one of the last of the Indian chiefs to surrender to the United States government, saw that. He wrote to President James Polk: 
Your decay may be distant, but it will surely come. Even the white man whose God walked and talked with him as friend with friend can­not deny his destiny. We may be brothers after all. We shall see . . . 

Steve Brion 

Art Belongs to the Masters 
EW of the 'Old Masters' are better qualified 
IW~~II to be the focal point of an exhibition in a 
university museum than is Giorgio Vasari. 
At a time when the university stre:;ses the 
need for a diverse curriculum, Vasari's versa­
tility provides an ideal for emulation." The enthusiasm expressed by Dean A. Porter, Curator of the Notre Dame Art Gallery, is not limited to con­noisseurs of art in the South Bend area. European art critics have already taken notice of "The Age of Vasari" exhibit now on display at the Notre Dame Art Gallery; Dean Porter calls the exhibit "probably the finest we have ever displayed here." 
Giorgio Vasari, a sixteenth-century Florentine con­temporary of Michelangelo, epitomized the Mannerism movement in Italian art. Reacting against the mathe­matically precise ideals of the High Renaissance, the Mannerists saw the artist's task as the interpretation rather than the imitation of nature. The unusual, often disproportionate figures which resulted represent the artists' search for a manner of expressing themselves in the sixteenth-century climate of turmoil and change. Vasari, Salviati, Cellini, Parmigianino, Giovanni da Bologna -the major Mannerist artists are all rep­resented in the current exhibit. 
HEN Dean Porter began making plans for 
"The Age of Vasari" more than three years 
ago, he was advised to forget the idea; even 
the Director of the Art Institute of Chicago 
considered it a project too difficult to attempt. 
The major Mannerist painters worked with oil on wood panels. Relatively few exist in this coun­try -perhaps two dozen -and all are fragile and quite difficult to transport. But with the aid of his art students, Dean Porter constructed as fine an exhibit on Vasari and his contemporaries as any curator could hope for. Art students began re­searching every available painting of the period. The voluminous correspondence with the leading art ex­perts and curators in North America and Europe to­taled more than one thousand pages. Dean Porter spent an entire summer searching for valuable material in nearly every major art collection in the United States. 
The most outstanding work exhibited, Vasari's "Al­legory with St. Jerome," was also the most difficult to obtain. One of the best paintings of the sixteenth century still in existence, its appearance at Notre Dame marks the first time the Art Institute of Chicago has loaned it for exhibition. To prevent crack-
The vainting shown on the vrevious vage is Parrnigianino's portrait of Lorengo Cybo, captain of the papal guard. The painting above is Francesco Salviati's "Portrait of a Gentlmnan." The sculpture on the preceeding. and facing vages is by Giovanni da Bologna. The Bologna statue on the vreceeding page is his "Vmius" from, the Boboli Gardens; on the facing page is his "The Rape of the Sabine." 
The Scholastic 

' ..,.,,...,~t ~#:~ ,..,,. , , l,'• 
v' , _, ' 
~ , ' #' , .. <' < >' 
,,, '~,.,, 

ing in the painting's wood paneling, a constant temper­ature of 72° and a relative humidity of 50% must be maintained. This necessitated an extra packing box equipped with two-inch styrofoam padding, and the hiring of an armored truck for the trip from Chicago. 
,..,--""'""""=~=..,91 HE amount of work which went into the exhibit has been immense, but Dean Porter and student-workers are convinced that their ef­forts have been worthwhile. Thirteen of the seventeen oil paintings are on wood panel. The exhibit also includes seventeen sculptures, ten 
woodcuts, ten engravings, numerous copies of original political writings of the sixteenth century, and every major Vasari drawing in the country. In addition, sev­eral lectures by experts on sixteenth-century Italian art have been scheduled for the month of March. 
After leaving Notre Dame on March 31, the Vasari exhibit (minus "St. Jerome" and three other oils) will be on display for a brief time at the State University of New York at Binghamton. Its stay here has seen the number of visitors to the Art Gallery more than double. 
The great appeal of the Vasari exhibit lies in its ''rele­
vance" to today, as it reflects the artist's search for expression in a time of war and social change. 
Official Grand Opening. Szuulay, ilforch 8_. 1970. 
"Giorgio Va.sari and the Sala Grande ·in the Palazzo Vechio," by Edmund Pillsbury, Assistant Curator, Na­tional Gallery of Art, Washington. D.C. Thursday March 12, 1970 (."J :00 P.M.) 
"The hnplications of 'Disegno' jor '.Maniera' Paint­ing/' by .1vlaurice Poirier_. Graduate Student, Institute of Art, New York University. Friday_. March 20, 1910 (S :00 P.M.). 
"Speculations About Early Florentine Mannerisms," by Irving L. Zupnick, Professor oj Art History_. State University of New York at Binghamton. Saturday, March 21, 1970 (10:00 A ..LYI.) (tentative date). 
Exhibit Closes. Tuesday,. March -'11_. 1910. All of the lectures will be held in the Art Gallery. The public is cordially invited. -Bill H'ilka 

An Appeal to the Acadeniic Billboard 
The publication of student government's report on co­education has served to revitalize the issue. The joint meet­ing of the executive committees of the Board of Trustees of both institutions to be held on March 20 has made the issue al~ the more urgent. John Zimmerman explores a few of the report's findings. 
0 N May 2, 1969, the University announced to its faculty plans to initiate steps to make Notre Dame and St. Mary's "substantially co-educational with each other." The announcement was characteristically de­ceiving. It soon became apparent that neither school knew exactly what co-education was and, interestingly enough, didn't care to find out. The announcement itself was clever P.R. but the task of encouraging increased cooperation between the two schools was relegated to a committee (specifically, the Co-education Coordinating Committee) with powers ill-defined and goal unknown. The Committee was able to expand the co-exchange program, provide increased shuttle service, arrange for new football seating procedures, and agree on joint registration for the future; all this provided a con­vincing illusion of progress while the Committee frantically looked for something to do next. And when an idea inspired the one side to negotiate, the other, with the ultimate prerogative of a "yes" or "no," usually responded with politely caustic subtlety in the negative. The questions the Committee and both schools should have asked (and have successfully ignored) were "Why does this Committee exist?" "Where are we go­ing?" and "How do we get there?" 
The first question is all too frequently answered by alluding to the social inadequacies of a monastic Notre Dame. This is, of course, the most familiar stu­dent response and is certainly a valid one. But the social welfare of students has rarely, if ever, motivated 1.he powers-that-be. To convince in terms of the aca­demic billfold is to motivate. Since the social ad­vantages of a co-ed Notre Dame have been repeatedly and definitively outlined, it would be best to abandon the temptation to repeat that outline just one more time and to consider instead the academic and financial implications of a co-ed Notre Dame. 
Unfortunately, too many Notre Dame men tend to identify with the ego-elevating myths that question female intellectual ability. Those myths must be dis­credited if we are to grant the "Notre Dame woman" the status of something more than a social tool. For the sake of argument, two of these myths will be re­ferred to as the "intellectual-inferiority theory" and the "distraction theory." 
The Scholastic 

THE "intellectual-inferiority theory" contends that women are less intelligent than men. Surprisingly, of those who returned questionnaires designed to assess the general feeling of Notre Dame's tenured faculty toward co-education, four per cent indicated that they still subscribe to this theory. And yet the evidence against such a myth is overwhelming. The Educational Testing Service and National Merit Scholarship Foun­dation have found a predictable similarity between testing scores for men and women, and high school aca­demic averages for women are consistently higher than those for men. A research team at Princeton discovered that the average academic records of women in highly respected liberal arts colleges often surpass those of men. And the majority of the Harvard/Radcliffe class of 1967 who received honors were women. 
The ''distraction theory" contends that the male student is continually distracted by women during classroom lectures. Kingman Brewster, President of Yale University, summarizes all of the surveys, stud­ies, and reports which give evidence to the contrary when he notes that " . . . far from being a distrac­tion, the presence of the opposite sex results in more intense participation and study." 
It is more important to give credence to the as­sumption that women would enhance the academic community and would themselves benefit from par­ticipating in that community. Many dispute the con­tention that there exists such a thing as a "feminine viewpoint." The Princeton Report, "The Education of Women at Princeton," makes a point worthy of con­sideration when it notes that " . . . young men have a good deal to contribute to young women's under­standing of Stendhal's The Red and the Black, and young women have something to say about Flaubert's Madame Bovary which would not occur to young men." A discussion of society, politics, the theological aspects of family planning, or the values of love and marriage fail to provide the Notre Dame student with a total perspective when void of the female viewpoint. Men's clubs have their place in society but the University was not meant to be, nor should be allowed to be, a four­year training camp for antifeminists. 
Financial considerations are alternately stumbling blocks to and motivation for change at Notre Dame. It is an unfortunate fact of University life. But the present financial instability must dictate efforts for future stability for both Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Since both schools have committed themselves to work toward "substantial co-education," financial wisdom begs the academic hierarchs to define what "substan­tial co-education" is. St. Mary's is enlarging its stu­dent body to approximately 2500 by 1975. In order to do this they must build a new library or expand their existing facilities to maintain accreditation -a ·con­siderable financial investment since one of the best undergraduate libraries in the nation already stands in the community and since 86% of St. Mary's women use the Notre Dame library on a regular basis. St. Mary's will have to provide new housing facilities while Notre Dame men are forced to _live on campus. Class­room facilities at St. Mary's are only 30% utilized while Notre Dame's utilization· is 70% (high for any university). And yet both institutions are content to "cooperate" only when it means cooperation will be without financial commitment. We are indeed guilty of calculated myopia. 
THE loose coordinate system that be~t describes the Notre Dame-St. Mary's cooperation as it now exists is hardly co-education. Financially, a co-educational sys­tem is almost universally less costly than a coordinate system, and yet we insist on ignoring the evidence, perhaps in the fear that a study of the Notre Dame­St. Mary's "cooperative'' future might show that our two presidents have been toying dangerously with the future of both institutions. To revere both presidents and their administrations is admirable, but to do so at the expense of both institutions is unforgivable. 
On March 20-21, the Executive Boards of the trus­tees of St. Mary's and Notre Dame will meet in Florida. Co-education will be the focus of discus­sion. Unless both groups drop pretensions and jeal­ousies, unless both groups decide to conduct a study of the academic and financial ramifications of any pos­sible course of action for the future, those days would be better spent in sun soaking and beach bathing. The trustees have decided to decide. Their decision may establish a direction and a goal for both institutions in working toward co-education. Hopefully. But as of yet the nagging questions remain: "Where are we going?" and "How do we get there?" 


John Zimmerman 
March 6, 1970 
The nienibers of the panel from left to right) Mike Litka) John Houck) Rudolph Gerber) John Roos) Les Foschio) Phil Faccenda. 
"picking scapegoats" "not a political trial" "officers of the legal system" "a violent confrontation" "the aftermath of a police riot" "everybody lost" 


CONSPIRACY TRIAL: 6 VIEWS 
On Thursday, February 26, the SCHOLASTIC sponsored a panel. discussion on the Conspiracy trial. The participants, all of them from the University community, were men ,-vith varying legal backgrounds and diverse political allegiances. The discussion lasted some two hours. What follo,-vs is only a small portion of the original conference. Some low, evil scu1n of the earth, some insipid bog of a carpetbagger, stole the damned tape recorder and accompanying tape before transcription had been completed. (We demand law and order.) Unfortunately, then, we are unable to present the discussion in its entirety. 
Gerber: It seems to me it could be argued that in· the Chicago Conspiracy Trial everybody who was involved wound up as a loser. The defendants lost be­cause they were found guilty of inciting a riot, of con­tempt of court, or of both. Judge Hoffman lost be­cause he lost control of his own courtroom. More fundamentally, he lost because he lost his impartiality, or at least the resemblance of impartiality -par­ticularly in handling objections and also in imposing final sentence on the defendants. I think the judicial system itself lost because in the eyes of the public, it came out looking very weak and very pitiable. The prosecutor lost because it seems very likely that this case will be appealed to a higher court and perhaps be overruled there. Finally, I think the government itself lost, because instead of silencing the defendants, it permitted them to have the very privileged oppor­tunity to use the courtroom as a means to speak di-
The Scholastic 

r-ectly and passionately to underground elements in the 
United States, the very elements that the government 
wishes to silence. 
I think because of this manifold loss in the Con­
spiracy Trial, the ultimate outcome is one of irony. 
The "bargain basement Robespierres," who wanted to 
foment a revolution and whom the government wants 
in jail, will very likely be eventually released at the 
government's expense and chagrin. And the same 
judge who handed down the very oppressive sentences 
will be overruled by a higher court. And the govern­
ment that sought to make the trial the trial-to-end-all­
riots-and-all-public-dissent in this country may well 
:find that it has not only provoked more riots in the 
streets but actually subjected the riot act of 1968 to 
a constitutional test that it cannot survive. 
In my opinion, if there is a winner in the Conspiracy 
Trial the only possible winner is the jury system itself. 
Somehow the 12 people who were involved as jurors, 
and who were subjected to perversions of justice on 
both sides of the bench, found the ability to distinguish 
the basic issues involved and even more surprisingly 
to have come up with a verdict which neither the gov­
ernment nor the defendants had expected. However, 
even the jurors will have lost if they persist in re­
vealing in interviews and syndicated columns the in­
timate and private details they transacted in the sanc­
tity of the jury room. 
Houck: I was going to talk about the Trial, but instead I am going to have to talk about your characterization of these eight defendants as "bargain basement Robespierres," a term coined by my beloved colleague Professor Norling. I think this is just totally unfair. I have heard and read about three or four of them. They are no more foolish or demented than I think our society is. Bobby Seale, for instance. I may find it difficult to explain some of his actions, but I find this no more inexplicable than our society, which claimed for 150 years some belief in the Bill of Rights -in equality -and did not practice it. So who is the fool? Bobby or society? David Dellinger, who has been a pacifist for 30 years, attempted to tell us some­thing about the futility of war. Something about what is in the make-up of man that allows him suddenly to reach some catharsis in war that he can't reach when he is involved in an unequal brutalizing society. · 
Tom Hayden's statement founding the SDS -the Port Huron statement -is as valid a criticism of our industrial society as one can find in a whole flock of volumes in our library. So maybe their particular actions may be questionable in our court of law, but they are not fools. I suppose the very real problem is who is the fool today -so I would question that part of it. 
Gerber: Mr. Roos, do you want to make any com­ments? 
Roos: I would basically agree with much of what Professor Houck said, but I would make this comment. Professor Gerber said that everyone lost -and I think that this is true. I would even go further and say that the jury system lost, in a way. I say that, because 
March 6, 1970 

the peculiar characteristic of the verdict-its being un­expected -leaves some arguments that it was a compromise. But, if everyone lost and if, as Pro­fessor Houck said, both sides were acting in some questionable way, the question is where does the most responsibility lie. It seems to me that one way we have to approach the question is to look at the genera-
The Participants 

Philip Faccenda, Special Assistant to the_ Presi­dent. Mr. Faccenda received his undergraduate de­gree from Notre Dame in 1952 and his law degree from Loyola University in Chicago. 
Leslie Foschio, Assistant Dean and Assistant Professor at the Law School. lVIr. Foschio graduated from the University of Buffalo in 1962 and received his J.D. from the State University of New York at Buffalo in 1965. 
Rudolph Gerber, Assistant Professor of Philoso­phy. Professor Gerber received his B.A. and M.A. from St. Louis University in 1962 and 1963, respec­tively. He also received an M.A. in Comparative Literature from Columbia, and his Ph.D. from the Louvain in Belgium. Professor Gerber moderated the panel discussion. 
John Houck, Associate Professor of Business 
Organization and Management. Mr. Houck ea.1~ned his 
B.A. at Notre Dame in 1953 and his law degree here in 1955, as well as1 advanced degrees from North Carolina and Harvard Law School. 
Michael Litka, Assistant Professor of Business Organization and Management. Professor Litka grad­uated from the University of Grinnel in 1953, re­ceived an M.A. from Iowa and his law degree from Iowa Law School. 
John Roos, Assistant Professor of Government. Mr. Roos graduated from Notre Dame in 1965 and will receive his doctorate from the University of Chicago. 
tion which supposedly has the power and to see what their responsibility is and the way they respond to it. It seems to me that the greatest irresponsibility was on the part of the government -and especially on the part of the Attorney General's office and the people who dictated that policy. It seems to me that they had an enormously prudent and equitable de­cision to make. Prudent in the sense that they had to look at what would be the consequences of: 
a) 
trying such a questionable constitutional law. 

b) 
having a judge like Judge Hoffman, who al­ready had the reputation of being harsh, 

c) 
picking out these particular people as scape­goats in a way to try and establish a policy. They had to prejudice public opinion as to what would be the consequences of that judgment and I think that they failed in that policy. 


Foschio: Well, I would like to approach this as a lawyer. I think one thing that is important to keep in mind is that courtrooms in the United States are not built for the trial of political questions. Un­fortunately this particular trial is being colored as if it were a trial of political questions. True, the de­fendants themselves wish to have their political views aired, but that's not uncommon in controversial trials in this country. Throughout our history, indeed even before the Constitution was enacted, there were trials of great force and moment involving grave questions. For instance trials going back to the Zenger trial in­volving freedom of press, and more recently, Dr. Spock's trial involving freedom to protest the Viet­nam War, have been accompanied by great public attention and emotion on the part of the partici­pants, the government and the spectators. This is inherent in a democracy that has a court struc­ture which separates powers: mainly that the court presides, the prosecution prosecutes, the defense de­fends and the jury decides. What is important to re­member here, also, is that if there is any fault, it may not lie at the feet of any one individual involved with the proceedings. It was, after all, Congress that passed this law. The passage of the law implies in some way that it was intended to be enforced. One may ques­tion whether it was desirable to enforce it against these defendants, but the fact is that the United States Attorney, who does take an oath to administer the laws fairly and prudentially, presented the case to a grand jury. These people decided that there was suf­ficient evidence to bring the case to court. It's just not possible within our system for a court of law to act as a public forum. As I see it, what happened here is what happens in every public trial: the defense always wants to be acquitted. Indeed, if these men had wanted to use the forum for purposes of making a speech, they could have as easily pleaded guilty and addressed the court at the time of sentencing and made as much of a speech as they made in the course of the trial, albeit for a more concentrated period of time. But what is important here is that the judiciary acted in the way it ordinarily operates. The Chicago Con­spiracy Trial proceedings operated just as they do in any routine criminal case, whether it be a simple as­

sault charge or a homicide. The essential elements were all there. Nothing else was done, in the general sense, that was not done in any other case. Forinstance, the defendants had their choice of counsel. True, Mr. Seale had some problem with Judge Hoffman on that and there definitely is a very strong point of law to be argued on whether he really was denied his right to assistance of counsel of his choice. But in its broadest essentials, the American machinery ofcriminal justice operated in this case very much like it operates in every other case. The problem is, the criminal jury trial system simply is not an adequate forum for the deliberation of these kinds of issues. And unfortu­nately for the defendants, if they had a strategy to gain sympathy with the jury, perhaps by being somewhat more provocative in their pleas throughout the pro­ceedings, I think this strategy undoubtedly worked to their disadvantage. Dr. Spock, as you recall, had a similar controversial issue involved in his trial, yet his trial proceeded in an orderly fashion, with unsatis­factory results in the first instance, but he was later vindicated on appeal. If one agrees with the defendants' political purposes, one can only hope that the appeal in this case will be similarly successful. But it seems to me not to hit the mark to criticize this trial as totally out of line with the purposes of American govern­ment and the American system of justice. 
Litka.: I think some of the reaction to the trial has belonged to those who didn't understand what Profes­sor Foschio was talking about: the workings of the system, the rules of evidence, the procedural laws, canons of judicial €thics. I think it would be very easy 
! to get the impression that it was a very unfair trial, ' i
Ii

that Judge Hoffman was unfair, and prejudicial. When one looks at the workings of the structure and when one considers the political beliefs that were proposed 
,,
' 

as evidence and overruled, the charge of unfairness ap­pears less substantial. If one read any of the local press, any of the Chicago papers, the letters to the editor, you understand that quite a number of these people revealed a lack of knowledge of the legal sys­
' 

tem. I have here one in which the writer claims, "The l 
l i 
The Scholastic 

I 
obligation of the defense attorney is to his clients, not to the judge, not to the court, and if it should be otherwise, justice would cease to exist, if indeed it has not already." "But this overlooks the basic premise that the attorney is an officer of the court: he takes an oath, he understands the rules of evidence, and most will accept them. I think that a knowledge, whether you agree with it or not, of the legal system will show t.hat not everybody lost. I think a big paradox in this case is that the defense seemed to ignore the rules of trial procedure, yet the first communique coming from Cook County was something to the effect that they would now focus on the issue of an appeal bond; now they're going to go to a strict adherence to the rules on the appeal. So I find this somewhat inconsistent. 
Faccenda: I think the reason I wanted to be more 
careful with my comments is that I have considerable 
experience with many of the parties involved in this 
present discussion. I had ten years of practice in that 
particular city and have been before that particular 
judge on 30-odd occasions. I think many of us are 
ignoring what the two lawyers closest to the case 
have said. Mr. Kunstler said the other night that, in 
his opinion, what was really on trial was the American 
legal system. And about a half-hour later on a dif­
ferent station, I listened to Mr. Foran, and he agreed 
that what was on trial was the legal system. Now 
that's probably the only thing that those two lawyers 
were able to agree 0n for four and one-half months and 
I think it's a point that we should focus on. Foran said 
since he believed that the system was on trial, he felt 
t.hat he was successful because the trial had finally 
concluded and an issue had been presented to a jury. 
And that, regardless of the outcome or the verdict, he 
had been successful. Kunstler said that he came to 
Chicago believing that our legal system could not 
handle a political trial, and he had set out to prove that 
point. 
I personally don't think that anyone gained any­thing from this particular trial. I don't think anyone in any part of society gains from violent confrontation, and I think this trial was a violent confrontation. I think it's going to make bad law; there's an old saying in the law that hardship cases make poor law. And I think this is a hardship case. The appellate court is not going to get a nice clean legal argument; they're going to get a legal argument fraught with emotion, on all sides. I'm going to be very interested in seeing how they get out of it. I think they are going to be forced into making bad law, because to do otherwise would be to deny completely their history, their entire training. Because if they take Mr. Kunstler's view­point, that the legal system is inadequate and, there­fore, they rule in his favor, they are going to destroy everything they've lived for their entire lives. A very difficult thing for any of us to do. On the other hand if they uphold Mr. Foran in his viewpoint, they're go­ing to uphold the judge, and this would be one of the rare occasions when they will have upheld that par­ticular judge. So, while I'm guessing that it will not be that clean in this particular case, I don't think that you can rule out the possibility that the appellate court will, as has been stated before, release the defendants. 

March 6, 1970 
Gerber: I would like to make a few questioning comments about the political aspects of th_e trial. A proper question seems to me: Is the present legal sys­tem, in particular the courtroom, the proper place to resolve political differences? We have newspapers, we have political parties, we have conventions, we have elections, we have a whole complicated and really very peaceful way of confronting opposing political views. And in that sense, I find it easier to justify the conduct of the defendants in the streets in Chicago than to justify their conduct in the courtroom. It seems to me that demonstrating in the streets is a legitimate way of effecting a political change in this country -even if demonstration leads to some minor inconveniences, and occasionally some major incon­veniences; but to prolong that controversy in the court­room by deliberately impeding the judicial machinery seems to interject a political dimension into the judicial system where perhaps it does not belong. Our judicial system is certainly not perfect, perhaps it does carry too much of the cast of the establishment, but none­theless, as Johnson might say, it's the only judicial system we have. While it certainly needs change, I don't think that the most intelligent changes in the judicial system are made by defendants who use abu­sive language in the courtroom, who insult the judge, who move in and out of the .courtroom as they wish and who engage in birthday parties and other similar festivities in the courtroom. All of this-type of activity is very proper on a television program or in novel form as a comedy; but it certainly does not seem to be proper in a courtroom which for the vast majority of the citizens in this land is the last recourse for jus­tice. If you don't get justice in the courtroom, you simply don't get it. So the question I suppose I'm leading up to here is what sorts of techniques could have been used by the judicial system to insure a trial on both sides without permitting an undue a~ission of this political flair into the judicial proceedings. 
• 
'?i· 
:':, 
.. ' 
-

. 
. ,. 
.. :
/:~ ~, ' ,"': 

Houck: I'd like to go back to your first point that seemed to say that the seven or eight were bad boys and that there was no provocation coming from the other side and therefore one can put the onus of the whole thing on their backs. 
The government, Judge Hoffman, the actions of the Attorney General, conditions in nineteen hundred and sixty-eight, are things we've forgotten about. We've somehow lost the patient here, which really isn't these seven or eight men, but the question of how we make larger decisions in our society around the areas which we feel very strongly about. I can recall very vividly in '67 and '68 working very hard in primaries and either my candidate Robert Kennedy or McCarthy winning every one and then losing at the end and then somehow or another trying to influence a convention and then somehow or another getting the Walker Commission report, in which one of their major conclusions is that this was a police riot. I don't have to say that this was a police riot; it was said by some other people. I don't have to castigate policemen; I think it's very difficult to live in these trying times and not make mistakes (and maybe mistakes were made on three or four different sides, in 1968). But, then the federal government, and incidentally an attorney general, decided not to proceed on this case, having learned about political trials from the Spock Case. 
~ .,~ " , , 1i 



-!})) 
' . f>--__ ~--:; 

_t:j ':\:'_--j 
•,<,i 
~ ' ~ :/ :. 

But then comes a new attorney general, who is one of the most political attorney generals we've had in a very long time, maybe the architect of the so-called southern strategy. He makes the decision, given all of the po­litical turmoil, given all of the cloudiness of the events of '68, to go after these eight men by having his federal attorney up there start presenting evidence to a grand jury. I think, given this tight context, one can have a better understanding about these eight men and how they reacted. Whether they're guilty of bad manners or judicial courtroom indecorum, I suppose we'll find out on the basis of appeal. But there is a larger thing here and the Attorney General knew it, when they went after the conspiracy charges. Conspiracy is an open door to bringing in issues like life-style and value systems, things which may have nothing to do with anything a court can do a fairly decent job of determining. A court can determine what the facts were in a limited area and what would be the appropriate laws to be applied to these laws. And they knew it when they went in on the conspiracy charges. ( Of course now we've got the big problem of finding them not guilty on conspiracy.) This allowed them to bring in all the life-style and value questions and to find the defendants guilty of moving across state lines. It's a very interesting thing. So, it's a question of who is abusing this delicate thing, the trial system. I think the blame can be distributed around. 
The Scholastic 



R. K. MUELLER, INC. 
NATIONALLY ADVERTISED 



Keepsake 
DIAMOND RINGS 

OMEGA -TISSOT-BULOVA 
ELGIN WATCHES AND RINGS 
* 

218 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 

CALL-233-4200-CALL 
Notice From Vice President of Student Affairs 
On February 25, Patrick Weber was elected captain of the cheer­leading squad for 1970-71. 
It was also decided that there would be an additional two girls elected to the squad for the 1970­71 school year. These girls will be chosen in the near future plus two members of the Notre Dame freshman class will have an op­portunity to be selected to serve with the cheerleaders for the next school year, bringing the total number of cheerleaders next year to 12-6 boys and 6 girls. 
When you know it's for keeps 
All your sharing, all your special memories will be forever symbolized by your diamond engagement ring. If the name, Keepsake is in the ring and on the tag, you are assured of fine quality and lasting satisfaction. The engagement diamond is flawless, of superb color and precise modern cut. Your Keepsake Jeweler has a choice selection of many lovely styles. He's listed in the yellow pages under "Jewelers." 
"L"'9-~~ISTE:RE:O k

~psa e® 
DIAMOND RINGS 



R,ngs from $100 to $10.000. T-M Reg. A.H. Pond Company, Inc, Est. 1892. 


,------------------------7
I HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING 
( Please send new 20 page booklet, "Planning Your Engagement and Wedding" and full color folder, both for only 2Sc. Also, tell me how to obtain the beautifulI44 page Bride's Keepsake Book at half price. S-70 
I 

; Name•---------------------­
1Address,_____________________
ICi~•-------------Co..________ 
ISt•te,_________________Zip,____ 
I 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X_9~~~~~~~~~~~ 
March 6, 1970 
perspectives 
jack fiala, ed mccartin & bernie ryan 





on coniniunity & canipuses 
THE N~tre Drune community. An ideal touted by Father Hesburgh in speeches across the country. A phrase from the bannerhead of The Observer, and the goal of. recent student body presidential candidates. What does it mean? 
Richard Rossie viewed the student body as a politi­cal power bloc; he acted as their "mandated" spokes­man. But Phil McKenna saw that there was something missing in confrontation politics. McKenna saw that the students are more than a source of power, and in his campaign, he continually expressed concern for the personal development of each individual. He tried to realize a community of respect for the individual, and he failed. 
McKenna channeled the efforts of student govern­ment into breaking down impersonal structures through academic reform, co-education and hall autonomy. His ideas were the culmination of the attempts to transform what had been a veritable military academy into a Christian community. The groundwork had been laid by Minch Lewis, Jim Fish, Chris Murphy, and Richard Rossie. But McKenna gave student government a new direction, and he fired at University structures. How­ever, Phil didn't carry out his attack to its logical con­clusion. The structure of student government went un­scathed, and at the expense of the community that was his goal. 
One could call McKenna's failure his prophecy. He short-circuited student government in attempting to bring about community through a structure which, by its very nature, is antithetical to community. His ad­ministration's failure to achieve that particular aim has given us a new perspective on the future. 
A university-wi,de community would be one in which 
each person lives, and works together with, and has a common respect for every other person. The atmo­sphere of a university-wide community would be one which is conducive to the development of smaller com­munities within it (e.g., the Afro-American Society, YAF, General Program majors, residence halls, etc.). The atmosphere is one of mutual respect. This is an abstract definition, granted; it cannot be anything but an abstract definition. Because community is an end in itself, to define precisely what community is (if that could be done at all) would be to presuppose what spe­cific shape that end will take. To define community is to negate the process of personal interaction which shapes it. To relegate the formation of community to student government is to ignore a segment of the com-
With that decision came the first of the Farley Hall Chapel meetings ( designed to .find more efficacious and less antagonistic forms of student government), and the initial proposals of government by unanimity. All conceivable candidates of both factions were present. The petty antipathies withered away with discussion, and the air was stripped ·of factious rivalry. The suf­fering of students at Notre Dame seemed much more important than ideological differences. For the first time, all sides were discussing the possibility of acting as a community in resolving common problems. For an instant, there was a realization that problems should be approached in a spirit of mutual respect for each other's views. 
But the election was three weeks away; the idea of 
munity one wants to achieve. To use community as an , .. unanimity was subsumed under two different guises. 
issue in a political campaign is an absurdity. 
Community in the sense of this definition includes all of the people -majority rule does not. ·what hap­pens when student government initiates a program and a certain percentage of the student body is opposed to it? One segment of the student body gets virtually everything it wants, and the other segment gets virtual­ly nothing. It's a zero-sum game; it's all or nothing. The defeated minority has no recourse but to attack the source of its alienation -student government. Would this action reflect respect or concern for the opinion of all in the community? 
AND what place has a political campaign in a com­munity? How much mutual respect do campaigns engender? The very nature of a campaign is combative and fractious. Can one reconcile that with a (Christian) community? How often does a defeated candidate work as an integral part of the victor's administration? When candidates say, "We've got to focus this campaign on the people of the community," are "the people" merely nameless, faceless votes, merely 50% plus one? The students are objectified as "supporters," as individuals with whom to be concerned only at election time. Cam­paigns create programs and offer candidates to fill the demands of the programs. The voters and the candi­dates are objectified, and the election becomes an exer­cise in robot theater. Is there a concern for the indi­viduals in the community? The campaigns of the "Left" and the "Right" are political masturbation; ideological campaign programs are spewed forth for self-gratifica­tion. There is no attempt made to reconcile differences between candidates; in fact, petty antipathies are un­consciously created so that the students, the "commu­nity," can be offered a "choice." 
Last September, the "Left" sought Bernie Ryan as its Presidential candidate for the following year. When Bernie declined, the focus shifted to Ed Mccartin and Jack Fiala. The nameless, faceless "Left" was prepar­ing for Armageddon in March, 1970. The equally ob­jectified "Right" was also mobilizing. All three poten­tial candidates had a difficult time in reconciling community as an end, with Notre Dame politics as a means, and decided not to participate in partisanship in the coming election. Instead, what emerged was an idea of government by unanimity as an alternative to electoral campaigns. 
The campaign began. 
THE concept of unanimity is a difficult one to grasp, but one that is intrinsic to a true community. Unanim­ity, like community, implies by its very definition all the people. And this does not presuppose that differ­ences of opinion do not exist. On the contrary, they do exist, but this does not necessarily mean that there is diametric opposition in difference of opinion. If this were a Christian community in which selflessness pre­vailed, there would never be diametric opposition, for selflessness demands sacrifice -sacrifice of partisan views and personal caprice. 
This article is not intended to be a diatribe against the candidates in this election. They are but tragic heroes caught in a structure which can never bear the fruit of community. This article is intended to demyth­ologize student government, to attack that structure, to show that things are not what they appear to be, that neither this election, nor any subsequent election will bring us any closer to community than we were on April 1, 1969. The prophet has shown us the way, and we have ignored him. 
The aspirations, dedication and sincerity of any of the candidates cannot be doubted. There is an admirable nobility in any person who puts himself in the position of Sisyphus. The stone of Sisyphus is the structure of student government, the structure that demands that a Student Body President attain his office through a divisive campaign and attempt to use that office as the driving force for community. 
Jack Fiala, Ed Mccartin and Bernie Ryan are juniors at the University. Messieu,1·s Fiala and Mccartin 'were candidates in 'last year's student body presidential elec­tion and served this year as student senatars. Bernie Ryan has been the Off-Campus Commissioner far the past year. 
Each week the SCHOLASTIC will make this column available to a ·member of the University community to explore and comment upon contemporary issues. Views expressed here do not necessarily reflect the editorial policy of the SCHOLASTIC. 
March 6, 1970 
By Jieaven; it is as rrroper to our age To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions As it i.s com:nwn for the younger sort To lack discretion. 
(P0L0NIDS; IN Hamlet) 
FOR the life of me I never could figure out how Saul Bellow's Herzog ever became a best seller. The book has almost no plot, its chief character is a Jewish intel­lectual that one could scarcely ask middle-class America to identify with, and it persists in bandying about the most complicated ideas in the most profound way. 
By this score Mr. Sa1nmlers Pl,anet ought to break all publication records. The little plot evinced in Herzog has diminished almost to the vanishing point, the title character is, if not more Jewish, certainly more intel­lectual, and the book is, as one would expect, full of ideas. 
All of this is rather odd because this is not a particu­larly propitious time for a novel of ideas, or at least of ideas expressed quite so explicitly as Bellow is prone to do. We are scarcely three sentences into the book before we are told: 
You had to be a crank to insist on being right. Being right was largely a matter of explanation. Intellectual man had become an explaining creature. . . . The roots of this, the causes of the other, the source of events, the history, the structure, the rea­sons why. For the most part, in one ear and out the other. The soul wanted what it wanted. It had its own natural knowledge. It sat unhappily on super­structures of explanation, poor bird, not knowing which way to fly. 
Now this is surely a finely honed bit of reflection and any author who can write this well certainly deserves our attention. But when roughly half of a 300-page book is devoted to similar musings one begins to see 

Artur Sammler: 
the problems that can develop.... 
But perhaps the fault lies within ourselves and not with the book -if this is not exactly a "propitious time" for a novel of ideas, the reason may lie in a cer­tain intellectual and moral anemia of the times, in acedia., the despair that comes from boredom. The late Harvard sociologist, Pitirim Sorokin, had a theory of cultural change that classified societies as moving through a cycle of three phases, from the "ideational" to the "idealistic" to the "sensate." Sorokin never hesi­tated to classify modern society as belonging to the "sensate" stage of the cycle (i.e., a state which tends to abandon reason and faith for ephemeral sensual plea­sures and which stresses action over reflection): an evaluation with which Bellow would find 1'Jmself in complete agreement. We have all become Marxists, at least insofar as we accept Marx's famous dictum to ap­proach philosophy from the standpoint of changing the world rather than understanding it. As Mr. Samrnler puts it: "Evidently it's a disgrace for true nobility to substitute words for acts." Similarly, we have allowed ourselves to become immersed in sensuality. Bellow comes down hard on this point. To quote again from one of Mr. Samrnler's periodic musings: 
You wondered ... whether the worst enemies of civilization might not prove to be its petted intel­lectuals who attacked it at its weakest moments ­attacked it in the name of proletarian revolution, in the name of reason, in the name of irrationality, in the name of visceral depth, in the name of sex, in the name of perfect instantaneous freedom. For what it amounted to was limitless demand -in­satiability, refusal of the doomed creature (death being sure and final) to go away from this earth unsatisfied. 
AS the above quote indicates, Mr. Sammler (and, by extension, one ought to include Bellow, I suppose) tends to take a rather conservative view of contemporary trends. However, he well deserves to. A Polish Jew by birth and an Anglicized intellectual by upbringing, Samrnler was trapped in Poland when the war started; and, before it had ended, he had lost his wife, his wealth, and an eye to the Nazis. Having survived one period of national madness, Sammler was-scarcely eager to usher in another one -and it is clear that he sees the potential for madness in the rebellion of today's youth. 
All of this is graphically illustrated when Mr. 
A Gentleman & A Scholar 
Sammler is asked to speak to a group of university stu­dents. Mr. Sammler is an elderly gentleman and, as they are often prone to do, he had managed to get side­tracked onto a number of peripheral issues and was running overtime. Worse yet, he made an offensive remark about the English Leftists of the 1930's and, before he quite realized what had happened, he was being shouted at and pushed away from the microphone by a rude and unmannerly (the key words here) group of students who tell the audience to disown this "effete old shit" whose "balls are dry." They do and Sammler flees, analyzing the situation (as usual) on the way out: 
And he was not so much personally off ended by the event as struck by the will to offend. What a passion to be real. But real was also brutal. And the acceptance of excrement as a standard? How extraordinary! Youth? Together with the idea of sexual potency? All this confused sex-excrement­militancy, explosiveness, abusiveness, tooth-showing, Barbary ape howling. 
Bellow is quite right in isolating "the will to offend" as the key variable in the youth rebellion. In fact it is only because most youths are as yet unwilling to offend (that is, to act uncivilized in a situation that is defined to be civilized) that the youth revolution is still con­fined to manageable proportions. What Bellow is ad­mitting here is that society is, to a certain extent, an artificial entity but one which, nevertheless, must be maintained even if it leads to such absurdities as de­fining the use of atomic bombs against civilian popula­tions as "civilized" and throwing a rock through a \\-in­dow of the Department of Justice as "uncivilized." As society is artificial, so does it become terriby vulner­able once people stop abiding by the rules. This vulner­ability can be overcome only through the adoption of some of the unethical tactics used by the malcontents ; and thus the plunge into the madness of revolution and counter-revolution is begun. Of course, the rub here is that one feels obliged to do sornething to stop the bru­tally real and murderously uncivilized foreign policy of America, and Mr. Sammler's solution, that of a slightly arid speculation, has proved of little value. 
But I really didn't want to get into politics here. If the book is conservative, it is so in a cultural rather than a political sense. Bellow is hardly an advocate of the Vietnam war and he has some equally dissenting views to register against the Silent Majority. He holds them equally guilty of having turned aside from those values of the past that are worth conserving, namely, "scientific humanism, faith in an emancipated future, in active benevolence, in reason, in civilization.Notpopular ideas at the moment. Of course we have civilization but it is so disliked." This is, in fact, what liberalism (surely one of the most maligned concepts of today) is all about. Truth, justice, and other atavisms. This is what gives the book its air of pessimism: 
Like many people who had seen the world col­lapse once, Mr. Sammler entertained the possibility it might collapse twice. He did not agree with his refugee friends that this doom was inevitable, but liberal beliefs did not seem capable of self-defense, and you could smell decay. You could see the sui­cidal impulses of civilization pushing strongly. 
JN short, Mr. Sammlers Planet is, as the~ say in the trade, a difficult book but also (again the inevitable phrase) one that is "well worth the effort." I person­ally enjoyed it though many will no doubt grow im­patient with Sammler's incessant thinking. At times, Bellow's eagerness to take issue with present trends leads him to sounding like a sort of Jewish Norman Vincent Peale ("A few may comprehend that it is the strength to do one's duty daily and promptly that makes saints and heroes") but, all in all, the book ought to be marked as a major success in the career of a writer who has made a habit of achieving major successes. 
Michael Costello 

March 6, 1970 

There was a leak in the johnny 

For about two-hundred years we'd been blowing it up) getting it ready. 
Ben Franklin and that lot apparently got it started. De Toqueville e:x:aniined it and saw that it was good; Horation Alger illustrated how it works) and Walt Whitman deified it. Millions of lungs spent them.selves inflating it. 
All that work just so we could have a nice ft.oat to varade down Broadway some Thanksgiving Day. We bleached its hair blond) bavtized it by immersion in a vat of Man-Tan) and it was just about ready ... just about . .. 
That hissing sound you heard coming from Wash­ington Hall 7,ast weekend was Edward Albee letting the air out of the balloon. 
A LOT has happened in the last eleven or twelve years. In 1959, I LIKE IKE stickers still adorned bumpers of fin-sprouting American automobiles, The Beatles were still taking 0-levels in a Liverpool academy, Bill Cosby was playing basketball for Temple, and most of the cast of Hair were sporting crew-cuts. 
This was the milieu out of which, or perhaps, against which, sprang Edward Albee's The American Dream and The Death of Bessie Smith. The force, the importance, of these plays derived not so much from the artistic craft involved or from well-wrought dra­matic form, as from their saying what needed to be said to the United States of the turn of the decade. It it is by grace of novelty and not necessarily quality that this play merits attention. So if it is the freshness of a message for a particular audience in a particular era that was essential for a play's effective­ness at the time, what happens when the message be­comes stale or obvious? 
This consideration poses itself a primary in plan­ning a production of such works as these Albie plays. Does one dust them off a bit and stage them as they are? Call them historically important? Does one tell the audience that the play is a milestone in the Ameri­can Theatre and they should therefore-enjoy it? It is much to their credit that William Byrd, Jr. and the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theatre chose otherwise. By means of two wonderfully imaginative sets, some cre­ative acting, and a life-giving injection of the produc­tion with the power of multimedia bombardment, Mr. Byrd & Co. patched up and compensated for some faulty aspects of the early Albee's craft and presented the revivified plays as still relevent and compelling statements vis-a-vis contemporary America. 
In The American Dream) the earlier play, Albee contrives not dramatic personalities, but animated characters in a comic strip world. This can provide humorous and effective satire if handled cleverly and creatively; the Washington Hall performance proved it could still work. The core of the American family portrayed are Mommy (Jean-Marie Meier) the domi­neering matriarchal figure whose every movement re­called the sweeping grandeur of a Loretta Young T.V. entrance; Daddy (Fran Donovan) who distills to a sort of personified sigh; and Grandma (Rita Gall) the engaging old philosopher in residence Mommy and Daddy consider senile and disdain for her age. This motley array of sterile celluloid characters in their sterilized celluloid apartment provide the target gallery for Albee's potshots at American mores, language and illusions of progress and success. Much of what was fresh satire in 1959, however, no longer is; but the good delivery by the cast helped to make most of the humor workable. Rita Gall is outstanding as Grandma, the only role which permits any freedom at all outside the rigid restrictions of caricature. 
Into this realm of euphemismic inanitie3 (about fixing the "Johnny" and "cutting off his-you-know­what"), inverted-cliche-ridden palaver. ("What an un­attractive apartment you have here!"), and trivial banterings of not being able to get "Satisfaction," walks the Young Man (Chuck Amato), the perverted messiah himself. He is described (in his own words) as "mid-west farm boy type, almost insultingly good­looking in a typical American way. Good profile, straight nose," etc. It is discovered however, he is rotted and hollow within, money-grubbing, incomplete. He has been bereft of heart, feeling, and potency, all of which departed when his alter-ego, the American Dream that was, was convicted on counts of cliche­violating by Mommy and Daddy, and subsequently dis­membered. 
The final tableau of The A rnerican Dream is prob­ably the most effective moment of the play. Mommy and Daddy welcome the second coming open-armedly, pour the alcoholic libation and recite the litany of achieved "satisfaction." Mommy lords over the Young Man, Daddy poses precariously astride Mrs. Barkley and Grandma draws the curtain informing us that as a comedy the play must end here. 
THE Death of Bessie S1nith is a social commentary of quite a different nature. It marks Albee's depar­ture from Absurdist caricatures to a more concrete Realist form. The Death of Bessie Smith is built around the demise of the famous Blues singer who died of injuries suffered in an automobile accident when she was refused admittance in a Southern white hospital. The force of the play stems perhaps more from its historical underpinnings than from Albee's dramatic artistry, but nonetheless, there are visible foreshadowings of the power of the later Albee of Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf and the Pulitzer Prize winning A Delicate Balance in the see-saw verbal bat­tles between the Nurse (Missy Smith) and the Intern (Jean-Paul Mustone). The work of both throughout this difficult Memphis-accented dialogue is effective despite the fact that they are handicapped by Albee's insufficient character development for so ambitious a task as he undertakes in so few pages of script. To develop effectively The Nurse as a character would have required more than the token attempt at pre­senting background we get in Scene Two with the father (Robert Rossi), or th~ seemingly meaningless telephone call to the Second Nurse (Carol Riordan). 
Just as the brilliant sets and Miss Shanabarger's well-designed costuming served to set the actiol) of these plays into a more workable context for 1970, on a larger scale, the montage of slides, filmstrips and music provided a background for the two plays them­sevles, forcing connection-making and showing the setting for these dramas to be not the theatre but the nation of 1970 itself. The Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval on that final tragic tableau in The American Drearn somewhat didn't let you have the last laugh you expected. 
James Chandler 


Watching Them Shoot Horses 
TAKE an evening off this week to catch They Shoot Horses, Don't They? downtown at the State. A week­night -to be alone, to be open, to judge and be judged. Horses is a meatgrinder; it's not a pleasant film or experience. Its length (2½ hours) and intensity will scrape you until your pennies shine, and stuff up your fat college pipes with slaughterhouse manure. The scene -a dance marathon on a California pier in 1932. The characters -a potpourri of pathetic dreary types including the hero, Robert (Michael Sar­razin) and his dance partner Gloria (Jane Fonda). Horses has turned out to be the sleeper of the year; with nine academy award nominations. Horses is a fine film, no doubt about it, and everybody's dutifully jumping on the bandwagon. There's a point where a good film is obliged to be great by the richness of its potential, by the fertility of its raw material. Faces, Hunger, Shame, Wonian of the Dunes -these are great films, films that allowed for no mistakes, no lax egotistical diversions in either acting or direction that might detract from the clarity or originality of their stories and deliveries. And Horses? They Shoot Horses, Don't They? has landed quite a lot of praise, some of it wholly undeserved. Horses is deficient; it 
promises so much, that, when it connects, it's annoy­ing, unsatisfying. And that's what needs to be dis­cussed. 
Pauline Kael, reigning queen of cinema critics, has designated Jane Fonda as "Actress of the Seven­ties." If we can hope for nothing better, then film is in for a very long coffee break. That Jane Fonda survived Barbarella and Vadim is a tribute to her per­sonal integrity, but it doesn't make her Princess of the Performing Arts. Miss Fonda has talent, and she dis­played it effectively in Arthur Penn's The Chase with Marlon Brando and Michael Redford. That was several years ago. Since then she has distinguished herself as Henry's daughter, Peter's sister, and Roger's latest conquest. It's been downhill all the way, and now, with Horses, comes the vindication. 
Or does it? Fonda plays a hard-nosed, pushy, tough­talking bitch out to screw the world before it screws her (again), with no real hope for the former, and all too much certainty of the latter. There are times when she is brilliantly convincing: her defiant hostility as she dances on alone, spotlighted, after she's been dumped by her partner; her single burst of joy when 
she drags her sailor through the second dance derby to stay in contention; her final, strangled "Help me!" as her strength fails at the suicide. Very fine. Still, the bulk of her lines are unconvincing, strained, as if she were embarrassed or intimidated by the character's utter bitterness and despair -much of the time she's trying to infuse fire into dialogue she obviously can't understand or relate to. She tries too hard, and flops, especially in her needling of the pregnant girl con­testant (who, incidentally, delivers an excellent per­formance). Not all this is Fonda's fault, naturally; the script calls for some incredible cliches, e.g., "I'm getting off this merry-go-round" -"Wbat merry-go­round?"-"Life!" and "Just what the world needs, another sucker!'' etc. Still, a lot of the blame is Fonda's, because several of her co-actors and actresses beat the script to render superlative characterizations. 
GIG Young as MC cuts the film's strongest per­
sonality. He's bored but manipulative, completely fal­
lacious, and concerned not with the contest but the 
"show," not with the contestants but the voyeurs, the 
audience. His lies, his exhortations, his trickery manu­
facture the venom that is the film's agony -the mara­
thon is a facade collapsing on those who choose it as 
a way out. The allegory of "The American Way" is, 
of course, partly blatant, almost heavy-handed, but 
belted out from behind Young's tormented smile, with 
all the noble drivel and ragged applauses seems to fit 
frighteningly well. 
Susannah York, as Alice, turns in a superior per­
formance as the pretentious, aspiring actress dancing 
to be discovered. When one of her dresses and her 
makeup kit are stolen (by Young, incidentally, to 
equalize the "show"), she begins to fall apart, and 
finally cracks up while taking a shower fully clothed. 
Her sexual habits are rather odd as well: she assaults 
the hero in a closet on a ten-minute rest break. 
Red Buttons and his partner are excellent as a ~background couple, as are the pregnant girl and her 'husband. The girl is best in her exhausted gestures as she sings "The Best Things in Life Are Free" to a blinding spotlight. The audience tosses her tips, and as her husband tries to restrain her as she stoops for the coins -"We need the money." 
Another problem though -the hero. He literally pops into the film's "present" and falls, into a position as little more than a foil for Fonda. He wasn't de­signed to, so he can't be blamed, really, for a mediocre job. What's wrong isn't the acting, but the part itself. That's the writer's fault. With less of the film's burden on Fonda, she might have been more relaxed with herself, more reconciled to her past. As it turns out though, the hero retains little more than an awkward presence throughout most of the sequences. 
Horses rarely drags, though, despite the mistakes in acting and script. The length of the film is un­obtrusive until the last few scenes -you are given a break, an intermission, after the first derby. The lighting and sets create an authentic, distressing at­mosphere, which, when combined with the camera's confinement to three of four basic rooms, wrings the audience through the claustrophobia, the trapped des­peration of the period. Lighting is the film's single unblemished accomplishment throughout; low-level 
March 6, 1970 
"filler" light underlines the sordid rat-race on the 
dance-floor, the increasing chaos of the "dorms," the 
dark, empty presence of the audience. When spotlights 
are used, they're knives to cut out contestants' last 
bits of privacy; the few faces picked from the shadows 
of the grandstand are modelled into death masks by 
stark illumination of bone structure from the side. 
The musical score deserves some mention. Both 
melody and lyrics in "Easy Come, Easy Go," are 
quintessentially reminiscent of the maudlin romance 
of the Thirties. The time is starkly beautiful, moody. 
During the crash, Billie Holiday's "Gloomy Sunday" 
was banned from the radio because people had taken 
to jumping out windows to its morbid lyrics. 'What 
"Easy Come, Easy Go" lacks in influence, it picks up 
in subtlety, in its every acceptance of its time. This 
is not to say that the music is obtrusive, but impor­
tant, yes. Half-dead marathon dancers dragging each 
other around to this tune produce a remarkably pow­
erful image. 
Pollack's choice to emphasize content over style is legitimate, but gets out of hand. This choice ,vorks if the characters project as particularly interesting, complex people; acting can wholly absorb an audience if it's exceptional enough -witness The Lion in Winter. As we have already seen, several performances in Horses are terrific, but Fonda, and her hero, are ·,wt. They're designed to carry the film, and they foul up. They do an adequate job, but one that is not suf­ficient to excuse the lack of camera mobility and in­genuity. 
WITH the dance derby, things change ra_~ically. The shot of the employers painting the track lines among the feet of the dancers is· excellent; editing picks up its pace to fit the greatly increased camera movement, and the accelerating frustration of the contestants. The cinematography of the first derby is the finest I have ever seen, anywhere, anytime. Pollack subjects the viewer to all ten minutes of the actual race, with the camera in among the couples as they struggle desperately not to be last. 
The assertion was made earlier that Horses is_ a good film, but not great, and the ending bears this out. The last shot -the remaining couples dancing on and on to Young's insane rhetoric -is a nice touch, but the film's clima,x is in the preceding sequence, and is completely inadequate. What happens I'm will­ing to believe; how it happents is another matter. I'm willing to accept the hero's motive for the mercy­killing, but the dialogue at this point is simply hor­rendous. The tough-guy cop asking "Why'd ya do it, kid?" -it's unbelievable that Pollack would grab for a cliche like this to precipitate his line, the hero's answer: "They shoot horses, don't they?" When the audience finally hears that line, blurted out in boring monotone, they can't help but blush for Pollack, for the film's needless and embarrassing self-parody. That line should never have been altered. The writer should be shot. Among others. 
Fran Maier 

B 


is for Bobcat Brutality 
Last Friday evening, SCHOLASTIC sports editor Terry O'Neil -armed with his checkbook, youth fare card and toothbrush -enibarked on a journey to Athens, Ohio. He made United's South Bend-to-Cleveland flight by two seats and four minutes. He niissed American's last flight to Columbus by four seats and spent Friday night in Cleveland. Saturday morning, Allegheny (two-thirds, con­firmed) flew him to Columbus. Then he hitched (five rides) 60 miles to Athens, aniving at 12::J.5 p.m., in time to watch Ohio University whip Bowling Green, 77-76, and gain a berth opposite Notre Dame in to­morrow's NCAA first-round playoff game at Dayton. 
THE segment of U.S. Route 33 between Columbus and Athens, Ohio, displays the American highway in all its variations. If a road condition exists, it is to be found on this 60­mile stretch -soft shoulders, no berms, blind curves, four lanes of concrete, two lanes of macadam and even a traffic light with green on top and red on the bottom. 
Traveling southeast from Colum­
Ohio's Craig Love: A sledge hammer in sneakers. 
bus, one notes that this variance of highway circumstance is not merely random. Rather, there is some order to it, an order which might be termed, loosely, "riches to rags." Near Columbus, Route 33 is a four­lane limited access thoroughfare, complete with clover leaf exit ramps. South of Lancaster, passing lanes vanish, followed by a tricky detour near Logan and, just outside Nelson­ville, that crazy traffic light with the reversed color scheme. Nelsonville­to-Athens is best described as two lanes of potholes. 
"They'd like to forget we're down here," sneers one Ohio University student. ('They' are Ohio legislators who fund the state's highway and education systems.) They pat us on the head and say, 'Be a nice boy.' I wonder what they'll say after we win the national championship in basketball." 
IT is with such inflamed passion that OU has rallied to its 1969-70 basketball team. Last Saturday, for instance, there were 14,102 fans in the two-year-old Convocation Center, which is: 
-3,263 more people than have 
even seen an MAC game. -2,731 more people than have ever been in OU's arena. -1,022 more people than the place is supposed to hold. 
The fire marshalls knew and didn't care; they were sitting in the aisles, too. 
OU crowds boo opposing cheer­leaders' routines, throw paper on the floor, chant, "Go to hell, B.G., go to hell," and insist, "We're No. 1, we're No. l" just like they do at the big­time snakepits. Sheet signs ask, cut­tingly, "What the hell is a B.G. any­way"? But if the Bobcat fan is a bit crude, surely he is not entirely to blame. The undeniable fact is that his basketball sensitivity has been dulled by watching the 1969-70 Bob­cats bludgeon to death all 11 home­court opponents. Ohio University plays basketball with all the grace (and effectiveness) of five Neander­thal men ... clubs in hand. 
Largest of the "physicians" is Craig Love, a 6-8 center who has no touch, but digs out a bundle of gar­bage points underneath, not to men­tion 13 rebounds per game. 
Forward Greg McDivitt (6-7) is stylish and mobile on offense, though 
The Scholastic 

his defense is mediocre. Opposite Mc­Divitt is forward Dave Groff, 6-5, 210 pounds of elbows and kneecaps -head cleaver in a gang of hatchet-men and the slashing, ham­mering symbol of this basketball team. Groff transferred from West Point two years ago, bringing to OU basketball a distinctly war-like at­titude. Teammates called him "Bub­ba." Groff responded this season by leading the squad in fouls (88) and disqualifications (six), which is quite a lot, considering he averages less than 30 minutes per game. No official verdict has been rendered, but Groff's shooting touch generally is recog­nized as a bit more horrendous than Love's. Both, however, can muscle the boards and set picks of unques­tioned solidity. 
Ohio's backcourt is the frontcourt in miniature. John Canine (6-2) and Ken Kowall (6-1) are lean, wiry types who complement each other superbly. Canine takes more shots than anybody else, not all of them good ones, but he is hitting a re­spectable 45% from the floor. Kowall is a left-handed playmaker who di­rects Coach Jim Snyder's system of disciplined offense. 
Two years ago, McDivitt and Canine were sophomore starters on an Ohio team which pieced together 12 consecutive losses and a last-place finish in the MAC. Since that string ended, the Bobcats are 41-14; they have won 31 of their last 37 games. OU was runner-up to Miami in the conference last year, then opened 1969-70 with wins over four Big Ten foes, including a super-sweet 82-80 triumph at Ohio State. The Bobcats rose as high as No. 5 in national rankings, but their MAC title was not insured until last Sat­urday's final game. 
Bowling Green had beaten Ohio, 85-65, for the Cats' only league de­feat. Another Falcon victory would deadlock the teams at 8-2 and force a conference playoff. 
It was brutal basketball ( 44 fouls called, 144 not called) and Bowling Green easily could have won. Trail­ing 75-74 with 30 seconds to play, the Falcons had posession, but were pressured into a turnover and OU survived for a 77-76 win. 
March 6, 1970 
THE Bobcats are a very funda­mental team. Their basic offense is double post (Fig. 1), similar to the one Notre Dame employs. It is de­signed to give Canine and McDivitt the 18-foot jumpers (Fig. 2, 3) and m a x i m i z e the offensive board strength of Love and Groff. Both guards go to the hoop and each has mastered the art of dropping a pass to Love at the end of his drive. Groff will put his head down and bull in­side occasionally and Love will back in against his defender before pop­ping a fall-away jump shot. 
Irish center Sid Catlett certainly has the bulk and height to neutralize Love. Likewise, Collis Jones is an ideal defensive match for McDivitt, who has moves and is a good leaper. 

Typically Bobcat is this move by forward Doug Parker. 
At the other forward, however, Groff 
will have a few pounds on Tom Sin­
nott or Jim Hinga. Both must be 
careful to block out Groff on the of­
fensive board and get good position 
when "Bubba" drives to the basket. 
Outside, Jack Meehan will give away 
speed to either Canine or Kowall. 
Defensively, Ohio's most apparent 
handicap is at guard. Neither Canine 
nor Kowall is as tall, as quick or as 
springy as Austin Carr. 
"\Ve'll start out in our regular man-to-man," Synder promises, "but we'll have another defense ready if Carr starts to murder us. We might let Corde try him man-for-man or go to a box-and-one. We don't feel the rest of them (Irish) are great out­side shooters, so the box may not hurt us too much." 

Corde is Tom "T.C." Corde, a 6-0 guard whose appearance and court mannerisms are Xerox copies of Philadelphia 76er Wally Jones. Corde is much the best Bobcat guard on defense, though he is a definite of­fensive liability, shooting less than 40% from the floor. 
0 HIO is likely to show some three-guard offense, especially if Carr explodes or if a Bobcat forward stumbles into early foul trouble. That system will put Corde, Canine and Kowall at perimeter positions, with Love and McDivitt or Groff at double low post. OU can be expected to fast-break more often with three guards, but a wide-open running game would be decidedly to Notre Dame's advantage. 
Ohio has been bothered this year by a full-court press. (Bowling Green pressed all night in its 20-point vic­tory over the 'Cats.) Canine is un­ruffled by pressure defense, but Kowall, the southpaw, uses his right hand sparingly and can be overplayed to his left. The big men, of course, are poor ball handlers and of little value against the press. 
Psychologically, Ohio has fine mo­mentum, while the Irish have run aground with serious injuries and a loss to Dayton. Strategically, OU will hope to control the boards ­in the person of Groff, specifically ­and play at a measured pace. Notre Dame is looking for an up-tempo and a sizzling Austin Carr, who could force Snyder into defensive alignments he'd rather not attempt. 

Figure 1 
Figure 1: Miami's double post system -Ken Kowall 14, Dave Groff 44, Craig Love 54, Greg McDivitt 34, John Canine 12. 
Figure 2: Kowall (14) passes to Groff (44), then picks for McDivitt 
(34) who gets the shot. 
Figure 3: Kowall (14) passes to Love 
(54) and cuts through; Love dribbles 

Figure 2 


into position, sets a pick and flips to Canine (12) for the shot. Figure 3 
Overall 20-4, Home 11-0, Road 9-4, MAC 9-1 
Player Pos Ht. G FG Pct. FT Pct. Reh. Avg. PF-D TP Avg. 
Canine  G  6-2  24  187-415  .450  73-93  .785  67  2.8  57-0  447  18.6  
McDivitt  F  6-7  24  138-322  .429  84-114  .737  214  8.9  87-5  360  15.0  
Love  C  6-8  24  140-271  .517  53-96  .552  309  12.9  86-3  333  13.9  
Kowall  G  6-1  24  103-241  .427  61-108  .565  67  2.8  61-1  267  11.1  
Groff  F  6-5  24  79-152  .549  76-112  .679  153  6.4  88-6  244  10.2  
Parker  F  6-4  24  51-117  .436  27-43  .628  97  3.9  72-3  129  5.4  
Corde  G  6-0  24  44-112  .393  39-54  .722  38  1.6  46-1  127  5.3  
Wolf  C  6-7  18  17-32  .531  10-17  .588  34  1.9  21-1  44  2.4  
Miller  G  5-10  11  6-18  .333  4-8  .500  3  .3  5-0  16  1.5  
Hunter  G  5-11  16  7-17  .412  9-12  .750  7  .4  20-0  23  1.4  
Glancy  F  6-4  11  2-15  .133  0-0  .000  ·10  .9  3-0  4  .4  
Rumpke  F  6-6  6  1-8  .125  0-1  .000  6  1.0  4-0  2  .3  
Rogers  C  6-6  6  1-2  .500  0-2  .000  6  1.0  2-0  2  .3  
*Howell  F  6-4  9  8-23  .348  15-18  .833  11  1.2  9-0  31  3.4  

Ohio 24 784-1745 .449 452-681 .661 1221 50.7 566-20 2020 84.2 Opponents 24 650-1553 .419 491-744 .670 1103 46.0 505-25 1791 74.7 
*Injured, will not play tomorrow 
usually maintains the look of some will have been reviewed to the point mental deviant, is nauseating most of nausea, so I'll keep this short. of the time, and embarrassing to Jane Fonda, in a controversial role, 

movies 

GRANADA: John and Mary is a strange film. It defies any kind of precise description. It is certainly not a great film. It is certainly not a bad film. You might say that it threatens to become a good film. From the out­set, the camera work and settings are superb, especially foe interiors of Dustin's apartment which abound with a heavy geometrical motif, solids, perpendiculars, p e c u 1 i a r spaces -this is all handled very nicely by the cameraman. As I men­tioned last week, in contrast to this heavy geometrical setting, the story itself is curiously nonlinear, consist­ing of flashbacks, flash forwards, and some fantasy sequences as well. The technique seems to me to be quite tight, but somehow the story itself never quite makes it. 
It threatens at times to become a really good film. Hoffman is all right, which means he is worse than in The Graduate and a shade below Mid­night Cowboy . . . which means, of course, that he is good -but very unexciting. Mia, inasmuch as she 
chicago 
The walking tour of CHICAGO per­sonally guided by the SCHOLASTIC takes a slight breather this week to visit CHICAGO'S most unusual movie theatre. THE CLARK on Clark be­tween Madison and Monroe, the CLARK opens up around nine o'clock in the morning and presents con­tinuous showings until early the next morning. The program changes every day and is almost always worthwhile. 
Today at the CLARK, two grand old SHAKESPEARIAN movies are on. 
March 6, 1970 
watch. 
Because the film is about an archetypal situation, it succeeds, but only because of that. Identification with characters is easy, but I think, too easy . . . the plot so weak that the psychological ramifications are watered down at best, and simply boring and old-hat at worst. The ad­vertisement says: "This isn't your mother's love story." Well ... that may be so, but it certainly isn't your sister's love story either, which means, ultimately, that it is fairly delightful, more or less happy, more or less gentle, more or less poignant, more or less good. 
Again, on Saturday night there will be a sneak preview of a new film released to my knowledge only on the East and West Coasts -star­ring Eliot Gould and Donald Suther­land. It purports to be a satire of military life, in the manner of Catch 22., which should make it quite inter­esting. As usual, in the case with these sneak previews, I am not at liberty to divulge the title, but it may prove to be a sMASHing hit. The preview will be at 7:15. 
Times: 1:15, 3:15, 5:15, 7:15, and 9:15. 
STATE: By the time you read this, 
They Shoot Horses., Don't They? 
Orson Welles' Macbeth is a stunning 
film: it is as tight as the original 
play and the acting is all good. 
Laurence Olivier's version of Hamlet 
is not so good, because it suffers 
more from overacting. 
But Olivier himself doing the solil­oquies is all that a Hamlet should be: which is to say, that one side of the character in this case the heady, almost effete intellectual, is well ·presented. Both of these movies are more than a dozen years old, that is, they were made when their stars and directors were still great actors, 
but not yet fat. 
Saturday, the CLARK has mysses in the Walter Stark production and Max Ophuls' Lola Montez. Ifyou have not read Ulysses and don't remember the plot of the Odyssey very well, then the movie can serve as a good intro­duction-reminder. If you have read it and liked a bit but not as much as The Rainbow, then you will find that Michael Sarrazin as her dance part­ner, Red Buttons· as the sailor, Sus­sannah York as an aspiring actress, etc. And they are all quite good. And another thing, Gig Young is getting old ... arid so are we. A great film at 1:30, 4:00, 6:30, and 9:00. With a ten-minute breather in between. To rest your feet. So get down there and dance. 
A VON: Fanny Hill to make up for all the money lost on Funny Girl. For Funny Fanny Fun, call 288­7800. 
COLFAX: Gaily, Gaily is a film ­based on Ben Hecht's semi-autobio­graphical work. From all I've heard, it is pretty delightful, light, zesty, etc. They're probably right, comedy isn't dead, it just acts that way ­but luckily not in this film, which is quite conservative in approach and very funny to boot. For times, call 233-1676. 
RIVER PARK: Katherine Hep­burn in The Madwoman of Challiot. The premier lady of the theater awaits you, but only if you call 288­8488 first, unless, of course, you want to take a chance on the times, which as some would say, could be similar to eating cornflakes with water. 
John StuP'P 
the movie is charming at least as often the book was funny and Milo O'Shea is good in the title role. Lola Montez is the controversial last film by French director Max Ophus', who also made That Man in Rio (a bril­lant film). It is showing around the country in 6, 5, 4 and 2 hour versions. We saw the 4 hour version a while back and thought it could well be a bit short~, so perhaps the 2 hour version the CLARK has as it should be. Lola Montez was, by the way, a famous whore and circus performer in the latter part of the last century; everybody she didn't sleep with, she entertained. 
On Sunday the CLARK has that old Bardot hit The Truth and Rififi with Jean Servais, which we have never even heard of. 
The CLARK is also cheaper than most theatres in CmcAGO and is even cheaper for students and they have great buttered popcorn. 

Turning and turning in the widening gyre The falcon cannot hear the falconer; Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold; Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world, The blood-dimmed tide is loosed, and everywhere The ceremony of innocence is drowned; The best lack all conviction, while the worst Are full of passionate intensity. 
Surely some revelation is at hand; Surely the Second Coming is at hand. The Second Coming! Hardly are those words out When a vast image out of Spi?itus Mundi Troubles my sight: somewhere in sands of the desert A shape with lion body and the head of a man. A gaze blank and pitiless as the sun, Is moving its slow thighs, while all about it Reel shadows of the indignant desert birds. The darkness drops again; but now I know That twenty centuries of stony sleep Were vexed to nightmare by a rocking cradle, And what rough beast, its hour come round at last, Slouches towards Bethlehem to be born? 
-W. B. Yeats 
Two interrelated accusations formed the core of Guy DeSapio's column in Monday's Observer. Both of them concerned The Last Word of February 27. The first, a charge of journalistic irresponsibility, is not to be taken lightly. Mr. DeSapio's accusation struck me as seriously considered; I think that it should be seriously answered. Less well considered, I think, was the charge of nihilism. Nevertheless, it does give me an occasion to present some further thoughts about what was said last week. In articulating his sense of professional responsi­bility, De Sapio has forgotten the peculiar position of a campus publication. The University community is not expected to accept any man's word as doctrine. My column was not an imposition of truth but an opinion offered for consideration. The presentation of opinion in a spirit of inquiry rather than dictation is, I believe a 
' 

basic presupposition of campus journalism. 
The idea of the University implies the belief that understanding can transform or alleviate suffering. I did not hope to introduce a new malaise onto the Uni­versity campus-my column was a diagnosis of the spiritual void in America today, not a plea for national disintegration. I believe that the apathy and depression· 
the last word 
that have pervaded the campus have been produced by a country whose people look to it for succor when there is none. Under these conditions, hope must be found in other places and thus one sentence in the final paragraph read: "Because an individual person pos­sesses some inscrutable, inner life, he can transform his experience into understanding and grace." By no extra­polation of thought can I consider these words nihilistic. 
NIHILISM is not necessarily antithetical to affirma­tion. If we fail to discrimate in our affirmation, if we affirm something without intrinstic value, we are nihilists. We are nihilistic if we can discover value no­where except in the will to posit value, if we can only say, with Mr. De Sapio, "We have to look beyond our shortcomings -rise above our feelings -push ahead and not wallow content in our old age ready to die." Such unreflective clamoring for action is itself a product of the belief that God will bless whatever we do as long as we are Americans. 
The future of America need not be a meaningless collapse. Father Dunne has often spoken of kenosis, the stripping away of superficial values which leaves man, the individual man, with only an undefinable value, a value inseparable from the human spirit. According to Father Dunne, this same process takes place in history, in the rise and fall of nations and institutions. When the accoutrements of sophistication and civilization disintegrate, we can best sense the indelible spirit mov­ing in a person, moving through history. 
THE alternate name for the Book of Revelation is The Apocalypse. This is no coincidence. Yeats' beast slouching toward Bethlehem may be rough and night­marish; but he is alive and out of him emerges a vast image of the spirit of the world. The spirit of Bethle­hem, the spirit of the rebirth of revelation. 
It is not with glee or even joy that I anticipate the apocalypse of this nation. But in the face of this impending holocaust, we must look for something other than a ceremony of innocence. And in this search, perhaps we can discover the intimations of something greater than the nation. As a journalist, as a person, this is the only direction that I can offer, a direction offered to the persons of this nation. Anything else would be less than true, less than hopeful. Merely a nihilistic belief in progress. 
-Rich Moran 
The Scholastic 

Askthe 2618 graduateswho joined an industry







leader last year · -about.tEtita . 
Learn about )Etna. Ask for "Your Own Thing" at your Placement Office An Equal Opportunity Employer anc! a JOBS-participating company. 
. w 
;1 ~-. 
~ 
,:." . 
• ' t 
\~ A 
·"'·,( 
Even ...Etna can't be everybody's thing. But for any graduate with an interest in people and an inquisitive mind, a career with us can stretch your capabilities. 
Helping people is our kind ofthing. After all that's what insurance is all about. Ifit's also yours, we have opportunities in three basic areas-administrative, analytical or sales management. And we need engineering and business graduates as well as liberal arts people. 
At lEtna, our business is selling insurance. But our concern is people. 
IJ~;r!ffl.
~ OUR CONCERN IS PEOPI.E 
LIFE & CASUALTY 

,nakcs thcn1..1
~ 
r 

Tllt' i.111101h P:d111 lk.icl1 pt'oplc /i.1\ r· 
I 
l n·,ttC'cl ,t < l:t:,,ic Ecl\,.1rdi.t11 ,t1it 
th,1 t you c.111 ,, e:11 ill 1w1 fret co111 fort l (l rnonth.;; of tht' \t',ll ... ,di tll!' 
q11:tlit) ,111cl ln11t!. ,, 1·:1r ,ot1 <'Xpt'ct fro,n P,d111 lkaeh i:--lrnilt into tl1i, Ii,1nd..,nnw ~ui t. It", ;1 Ill'\\ look .. Ihe look \'Oil \,·:i !l t. 
$75 
az.~~ 


· ILBER ' 
.--,...-~ 
ampuj~ho
-----~ 
ON THE CA:\,fPUS ... NOTRE DAME 






