Disce quasi semper victums; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVI.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, MAY 5, 1883.
No. 34.
The Veteran.
“This is glory! says tire Captain, Lapsing into darkest dreams, When the pleasant music streams
From the homes of happier men.
Better you had fallen, oh, Captain!
In the red storm of the war, Than to learn how strange you are
To the ways of modern men.
Then they gloried in the splendor
Of your strong right arm and true: Have they time to think on you Now their shops need no defender?
In your eye the light is prouder » Than we cafe to look on now, There’s a set scowl on your brow, On your cheek the stain of powder.
All you had you cast unsparing
In the vanguard of the truth— Courage, hope, and handsome youth— Are your laurels worth the wearing?
Fighting with the marsh land fever, Drenched at night with chilling rains, You have won the cruel pains
Not to leave till life forever.
Pardon me the doubt, old Captain, In the crowds that clog the earth Lives like yours have greater worth
Than a score of lesser men!
Marton Muir
Sizes of Worlds and their Inhabitants.
Poets and fabulists of all ages have ever delighted in writing of mighty giants far exceeding in bulk and strength those of the present; and they have indeed written so well as to make many believe that human beings were once considerably larger than they arc now, and that they really are growing “ weaker and wiser.” Of course, lifter this belief there werenot wanting persons shrewd enough to discover, that if mankind continues in a constantly decreasing ratio the race will, sooner or later,- become extinct; and if each generation is
wiser than the preceding,-we shall one day have doll-baby philosophers of extraordinary ability.
This conclusion, is logical indeed, but the belief in man’s enormous size formerly is not so reasonable. The. story of the huge Titans, for instance, piling mountain upon mountain,'or of Briareus. pelting at Jupiter his hundred boulders, is interest-, ing enough, but if their actions were narrated as they should most likely occur, the story would, be quite different. Then, instead of active and. terrible monsters towering aloft their massive bodies’ and sporting with heavy burdens, there should be a race of helpless wretches stretched out on their backs, groaning- under their own excess-ive weight and unable to arise. Their only hope of existence would be to roll into the water, like some great sea-monster, and have their overwhelm-ing load supported by that element. They were strong,—indeed, strong enough to overpower the whale, but their weight was too much for their strength.
There is a fact that should always be remembered in speaking of such prodigies, and a fact that will enable us to determine a certain limit to their height, viz., that the higher a man is the more difficult he finds it to support himself. Thus, if a man’s height were doubled it would require twice as much effort to stand; if trebled, three times as much, and so on. And when he became one of the genii “ as tall as a pine tree,” or a Brob-dingnagian who “ appeared like an ordinary spired steeple,” he would begin to sink and totter, then topple, over and come tumbling to the ground. Once down, he would lie there forever, and, in the words of Sophocles, remain
----yZuzt»
~po$ yaptv ^opa^
“ To birds a sweet treasure to dart upon for sake of food,” for he could not even assume a sitting posture. Gulliver’s Glumladitch, too, who was “only forty feet high, being little of her age,” would feel as light and spry as a young school-girl carrying eight or ten of her companions.
But there were some giants of a more credible height. Goliah, for instance, according to the estimation of the Jewish commentators, measured eleven feet; Hercules is said to have measured seven feet; Orestes eleven and a half, and Maxi-mian eight. This is not improbable, for we have certain records of men from eight to nine feet in height. There is a skeleton at Trinity College,
53°
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Dublin, measuring eight feet six inches, and another, eight feet two inches, at the College of Surgeons, England. There lived in Baltimore, some years ago, a young Irishman nine feet high. The celebrated Chinese giant is still higher. Such monsters, when powerfully developed, have five or six times the strength of ordinary mortals. They can hold a good-sized man out at arm’s length or use him for a club in battle. Like the mighty Diomede they can hurl a stone which two common men cannot carry.
----- o di yeppadtuv id/js yetp't
Tuoetdr^, pi-pa ep-pov. 6 uu Suu -pavdpe eipoiev^ Olut vuv ftpoToi eta ‘ u di ptv pia ~diie xa'c 010^.
“ Tydides raised a stone a mighty weight • Such as two men living now could not lift But he alone could swing around with ease.”
What stature is the most convenient it is hard to say. Some would prefer a large, well-formed body; others, a medium with great agility; and even some, an extremely small stature of, say five or six inches, or a foot. And the latter have a great many advantages, too, the poets have forgotten. Far from running a risk in attacking a flock of cranes	'
—“ ^6vuv xat l\?tpa e>ipuu<7at’’
they should consider it royal sport. Being onefifth or tenth the height of ordinary men, they are five or ten times as strong relatively to their weight. Hence they can leap higher than their big neighbors, never feel tired of their own burden, can run about easily with seven or eight times their own weight, may leap from the housetop without injury, etc. Unlike the citizens of Liliput, they could mount their prodigious visitor without a ladder, walk all over him, and tumble off" with impunity.
Nor is it hard for them to find food enough for theirlittle stomachs, and clothes and shelter. They can subsist for a year on a few nuts, a little grain, a few fish or birds, etc.; can cultivate most of the plants and fruits of the garden, and store them awaj*; can weave a fine silk garment from a single cocoon, and make a snug little house from a few leaves and twigs. What a pretty sight to see a party of these tiny fellows all dressed in shining silk, feasting about an apple, or digging through a great watermelon!. They may also apply their mechanical ingenuity to the construction of powerful motors for running all kinds of useful ma. chinery. Yes, and they might fashion an excellent pair of wings from a few leaves and go sailing off to the clouds. They must, of course, make considerable* progress in art, science and literature. How pleasant for a student engaged in foreign affairs to carry a few educated ones to class and have them to whisper hard translations and dry philosophy through a tube extending from his inner coat-pocket to his. ear, a covenient dictionary forsooth, a talking encyclopaedia, a universal “pony.” 'High standing collars would then be more apropos since, whilst serving as a gaudy ornament, they would be useful to conceal the little tube.	.
It would be advantageous to have tribes of all sizes living together, mutually assisting one another; but then the larger race would hold it a natural right to enslave the smaller. If they lived alone, it is hard to decide what stature would be preferable. The average height of man is between five and six feet, and that is probably best adapted to this earth; for nature took the measure and made other things to correspond. If so, then in speculating about the inhabitants of various worlds we should give them a proportional stature.
Taking this as a standard, and remembering that the greater a world, the smaller its people, it is easy to find suitable regions for all the races of fiction in the numerous orbs that circle about the sun. The sun himself, if habitable, would accommodate men no larger than one’s finger. The tallest Senior must there assume a height of but 224 inches. Jupiter, with all his storms and vast surface 121 times that of the earth, must, of course, be the land of the poor little Pygmies and dwarfs; whilst bis moons, on the other hand, are fit abodes foi- giants fifty or sixty feet high. Here, then, we find a country in which the sons of earth and the Brob-dingnagians, and, to a certain extent, even the Olympic gods may become a reality. The people on Jupiter’s moons move about just as easily as those of the earth, and can leap thirty or forty feet -high. An ordinary walker makes as much speed as a railway train; he can go to the most distant point in the world in a week.
Rowing, too, is there remarkable. Their boats, owing to the great velocity with which they move, do not plow and divide the water, but skip over it like the flat stones which school-boys are wont to throw. For this reason their boats have not the shape of our swift sailing ones, but rather resemble a large smooth board turned up at the sides and front. At full speed, the hind part need not even have protection to prevent the water from flowing in, for the velocity is sufficient to escape the flow. Half a dozen vigorous strokes from their long-oars which outmeasure our tallest oaks would send the crew in the race of St. Edward’s day askipping from buoy to buoy, then headlong to the shore, unable to stop or turn around.
Everything is enormous. Huge trees, compared to which the mammoth Sequoias of California are but shrubs, bear the nests of robins . larger than the Bald Eagle and squirrels more formidable than the Rocky Mountain lion. Serpents, a furlong in length, coil among the trees, and wild beasts larger than a freight car roam through the forest. The. men there rival in size the Pharos of antiquity or the Statue, of Liberty; that is .soon to grace:- the,.entrance to. New York harbor, and in weight they are equal to a thousand inhabitants of the earth. On this account they must have extraordinary feet to support them in soft places. The foot of an ordinary well-formed Cerean measures about thirty square feet, and their footballs are ten feet in=diameter. ’ The little children play with marbles like cannon balls, and the young men.in .their ruder, pastimes hurl at one another rugged stones four .feet in diameter. In this won
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
531
derful land we find abundantly realized that extravagant feat of ’/Eneas, who hurled a stone which six chosen men of these degenerate days could scarcely support!	•
“----Saxum circumspicit ingens
Saxuni antiqum, ingens, camps quod forte jacebat.
Vix illud lecti bis sex cervice subirent
Qualia nunc hominum producit corpora tellus Ilie manu raptum trepida torquebat in hostem. Altior insurgens, et cursu concitus heros.”
To these fellows our battles are “ but a civic game.” Their horses thunder along more rapidly than a huricane, and are as irresistible as a locomotive. The much-abused, surly-looking donkey is in this favorable region an imposing sight. He -towers to the height of forty feet, and “ sports ” a pair of ears three yards in length. No burden ever oppresses him. He can jump and kick under a load of 200,000 lbs (or a thousand of our Baby Seniors—provided they “stick”). He can tear asunder the strongest rope ever constructed by man, and kick down a stall as impregnable as Ehrenbreitstein. When he brays, the ground trembles and re-echoes the sound for miles. A stamp of his foot is far more tremendous than the fall of a mighty steam hammer; a violent kick more ruinous than the thunderbolt or a shot from an eighty-ton cannon.
But even these monsters are weak and insignificant when compared with the stupendous inhabitants of Ceres. This little world measures 160 miles in diafneter, and since a man’s height (specific gravity aside) is inversely proportional to the world on which he lives, the people of Ceres must stand 50 times taller than those of the earth. Now, their strength increasing as the square of their height makes them 3500 times stronger than earthly mortals; and since objects there are 40 times lighter they can raise loads 125,000 times larger than we can. An ordinary Cerean measures nearly 300 feet in height and 75 across the shoulders; he weighs 400,000 lbs., and can lift 500 tons. His voice sounds like thunder and his breath like a storm. He paces along with a stride of more than a hundred feet and carries a cane larger than a Norwegian pine.
Stately trees 30 yards in thickness penetrate the clouds 2 miles above the ground and spread out a foliage so vast as to cover a whole city. Magnificent birds like the roc of ‘.‘The Arabian Nights,” capable of carrying several tons sail forth on - wings that overshed a space of three or four acres.
The whale extends, his huge body a mile along the deep, spouts forth a greater stream than the guysers of the Yellow Stone; when sporting in the water he starts up billows like those of an earthquake. ■
The common oysters resemble our Tridacnse Squamosaj of the Indian ocean,- and measure four feet in width, but the men eat them by the dozen. This is not surprising when we remember that there the human stomach averages forty or fifty feet in length and twenty in diameter. It requires hundreds of acres to raise food enough for a single person, and since the world is so small, only a few thousand persons can live there comfortably. For this reason, also, there are but few towns and only one government. •	•
A man can run to the farthest point on the globe in an hour. He can leap'across the largest rivers, and clear most of the hills and valleys. Every tread of his foot shakes the ground for leagues; and in time of much agitation the whole world trembles.	. .
A battle there is an appalling sight. The soldiers have no need of massive cannon for. their work of destruction. They hurl huge boulders for miles along the land and so swiftly as almost to resist the force of gravity. Like the-angles of Milton who
li—Plucked the seated hills with all their load. Rocks, waters, woods, and by their shaggy tops Uplifting, bore them in their hands,”
so the Cerean warriors, neglecting all other weapons, gather up and hurl whatever lies in their way.
So much for the inhabitants of Ceres; but the maximum is not yet reached. In the apocryphal book of Enoch we read of “great giants whose stature was 3,000 ells,” that is to say, about two miles. Similar personages are described in oriental tales. But on the spheres we have seen thus far these fanciful creatures could not exist for a moment. Being two thousand times the height of terrestrial men they require a world whose diameter is only j4ooo of the diameter of the earth or four miles. Men two miles high on a world four miles in diameter! Six of them could span the globe and each could stand with his toes in the centre and Kis head at the surface. They could go around the world in a few seconds, and leap with such force as to displace it several feet.-
To continue the proportion, suppose the man. (for it could not be men) were ten times higher or 20 miles, then the world must be two-fifths of a mile in diameter. Now he can toss it up in his hands with as much ease as a boy does his ball (with inorepleasure, too, for, being the centre of attraction, he never has to “ toddle ” it). Continue the proportion a little farther, and the world becomes a sweet pill, two furlongs in diameter, and the man (“ monarch of all he surveys”) discovers it, swallows it, and remains in dismal solitude. He is too big to be comfortable, his legs stick together, and his arms and fingers uselessly, adhere to his side. But let us destroy him, for he looks wearied (and the reader too this good while). Ungainly old fellow, give up your ghost! He dies —decays; the elements rush together, and another asteroid moves on his everlasting journey.’ ;
Albert F. Zahm, ’83.
. Jeanne D’Arc.	.
Pure as the Mother of the Lord,	-	\
Her glory, slanders but enhance;	: ;..
From heaven she obtained her sword;	,
She lived for God, she died for France.. i
Beautiful as the Saviour’s smile, ... .. .	.
The Judith of her fallen race:	~	: ;
In her there was no trace of guile,	. ’ . <
Her nature, was but Heaven’s grace. ,	, f, -
' T.fE.SlT,-
THE NOTPE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Education.
Education is a subject fraught with mighty interest to all, and especially should it interest us, who live in a free country where the highest positions of honorable distinction and renown are open alike to the rich and to the poor, and where the criterion of character is ability and morality, rather than wealth and noble birth.
God created man according to His own image, in knowledge, justice, and holiness. He gave man a body susceptible of development and a mind capable of improvement. It is certain that the body is strengthened by proper exercise; so also is the mind developed by discipline. From which we conclude that God designed that man should improve these powers, and, therefore, it is his duty to do so.
Education consists in training, in cultivating the faculties with which we are endowed. AV e may readily see the condition we would be in without education by referring to those who are not favored with this God-given blessing: in those countries that are without books and teachers and knowledge we see poor, wandering tribes, without government or principle, while we are both happy and prosperous.	.
The mind of man, without education, has been compared to an unfinished piece of marble, which unveils not its inherent beauties until the sculptor’s hand forms it into shape, brings out each vein, each muscle, polishes it and makes it pleasing to the eye. In like manner will education develop and bring to light those hidden treasures of the intellect and direct the faculties of the mind into the right course from which they may benefit mankind and honor the possessor, and often produces men of thought whom the world would never have known had they not received learning. The advantages for obtaining knowledge have increased as the world has been improving. ’People living a hundred years ago were not afforded the advantages we enjoy in this the age of improvement, and in our glorious land of liberty where speech and the press are unshackled, and where we are blessed with numerous other ad' vantages. There , is no one in our land but may receive a substantial education;. if he is too poor to defray the necessary, expenses/the State will gladly assist him. Truly has education been called the crowning glory of the United States, where all have opportunities of advancing in knowledge.
By no other means than study can a man become eminent in learning. .There is no such thing as accidental inventions; they are only produced after years of, thoughtfulness and attention. If we make ourselves acquainted with the history of our statesmen, philosophers, men of science, or those who have occupied the highest positions of usefulness in-the world, we shall find that the large majority of them have attained their eminent positions from obscurity, and that they have not become such casually; but that, without superior advantages,-they have surmounted barriers apparently insuperable, by persevering industry. It is
true that some men are endowed with talents whilst others are not, and especially are some people remarkably apt for their hobby; but these talents will never develop themselves unless improved by diligent study, and they must be educated to bring them nearer perfection.
The mightiest minds that ever astonished the world have arisen from poverty; it was their incentive, their stimulus to act, to seek glory and immortality. We are indebted to poverty for the discovery of oiir own country; it mddc Hogarth a painter, and Napoleon the conqueror of Europe. It is a well-known fact that Dryden and Pope —both bright stars in the literary heavens—wrote under the constraints of poverty, as did also that “great leviathan of literature,” Dr. Samuel Johnson. Unable to eke out a livelihood at schoolteaching in a country town in England, Johnson went to London with only a shilling or two in his pocket, and for several years wrote parliamentary speeches for Cave, the editor of the Gentleman'1 s Magazine, behind a screen at St. John’s Gate. Of this genius fostered by poverty, his friend Mrs. Thrale wrote:	.	.
“ Gigantic in knowledge, in virtue, in strength. Our company closes with Johnson at length; So the Greeks from the cavern ol Polypheme past, When, wisest and greatest, Ulysses came last.
To his comrades contemptuous, we see him look down, On their wit and their worth with a general frown. Since from science proud tree the fruit he receives, Who could shake the whole trunk while they turned a few leaves.	.
His piety pure, his morality nice—
Protector of virtue, and terror of vice;	•
In these features religion’s firm champion display’d, Shall make infidels fear for a modern crusade.”
We mention the name of Franklin with a feeling of pride and pleasure; and he was of very humble and obscure origin; his parents were unable to bestow oh him anything more than the rudiments of an education. By dint of his industry and constant application, he became renowned for his researches into the mysteries of science, and every flash of'lightning that; meets’our glance serves to remind us of his greatness. -
Many perhaps, possessing as great natural powers as Franklin,-have lived and died in obscurity, without ever having benefited the world or themselves/ ' Simply for want of cultivating their, minds, while Franklin’s name has come down with a glory undimmed by the lapse of years and ’ will always be remembered honorably.
“ Education abroad is an introduction, at home an ornament, and in solitude a solace.” Aii educated man shows by his general appearance/ his talk and manner.that he is far above;the level of common people, and at once gains their respect and admiration. Such a man’s mind is never idle;- he has always abundance of material on which to direct his thoughts,, and he is afforded./great pleasure and comfort in considering the harmony and grandeur in’the works of nature and the wonders of science. Education creates a spirit of independence within a person, and gives him perfect bbiifidence in all his actions. Observe for a moment- the difference between two men, the one learned, but poor, the other’
THE NOTRE DAME-SCHOLASTIC.
533
illiterate but wealthy. The one has confidence in his abilities, and though in the presence of monarchs conducts himself with srrace and ease, while the unlearned man is at a loss at all times and in every sort of company.	.
“It is better to inspire the-heart with a noblesentiment than to teach the mind a truth of science.” For one to be thoroughly acquainted with arithmetic, geography, grammar, and history does not make him the possessor of sound learning. A really good education consists in.the education of the heart as well as of the mind. It is the heart that suggests lofty and inspiring sentiments to the mind and that forms a truly noble character. The mind and heart must be educated together to give power to knowledge; then is it deep in its reach, and fruitful in its workings.
Knowledge has no favorites but those that love her. The most favored are the most frequent applicants, and at all times she gives generously of her bountiful stores.
C. A. Tinley, ’84.
Art, Music, and. Literature.
—A new department with the title of “Open Letters ” has been added to the Century. It contains short and lively essays on all manner of subjects, each of them to be signed by the writer. r '	—A statue to the composer Bellini is to be
erected in Naples. The monument will represent Bellini with the Muse. There will be four bassreliefs, representing “ Norma,” the “ Somnambula,” and other operas.—Home Journal.
—The photographic printing of the second volume of the autotype fac-simile of the ancient Biblical manuscript known as the Codex Alexandrinus, in the British Museum, is completed (including Osee to II Maccabees), and it will shortly be issued.
;—Gustave Dore left behind him about twenty finished illustrations of Shakspeare, the best being of “The Tempest” and “Hamlet.” There are many smaller studies which, though not quite finished, are sufficiently far advanced to be traced by the wood engraver.	,	’ '
• —The forthcoming number of the Dublin Re-vieiv will contain an article, entitled “TheDays of Creation,” from the pen-of the Hon. and Right Rev. Dr. Clifford, Bishop of Clifton, in which he further illustrates his theory of the Mosaic account of creation iii the first chapter of Genesis.
—Miss Bertha Voh Hillern and Miss M. J. C: .	Beckwith are exhibiting their landscape paintings
;	in Baltimore. The, press of the city speaks in
{.	praise of them. The ladies are independent artists,
V	tievoting the summer to pedestrian excursions;
r;	mountain climbing and. sketching, and the winter
. to the production and exhibition of pictures.— J	Home Journal.	, .; ,
|	—“H. H.” (Mrs’. Helen Hunt Jackson ) contrib-
g	utes to. the May Century the-first of her. papers
' on the FranciscanMissions of Southern California,
—a subject with which she has made herself familiar by long study and observation. This first paper, “Father Junipero and his Work,” contains the picturesque story of the founder of the missions, and much about the early settlement of California.
—The first number of the magazine projecting by Macmillan, London, is to appear in September. The intention of the publishers, in this enterprise' is—or is generally said to be—to counteract the influence sought to be obtained in England by. the Century z and Harper's Monthly. Macmillan is one of the strongest publishing houses in England, and anything emanating from its press possesses, by the very fact, a guarantee of excellence.
—An ancient life of St/ Patrick in Latin has re- -cently been brought to light in a manuscript in the Royal Library, Brussels, which formerly belonged to an Irish monastery at Wurzburg. This life, it seems, much resembles the account of St. Patrick extant in the manuscript known as the Book of Armagh, asreibed to the ninth century, of which portions have been published in the “Fac-similes of Na- . * tional MSS. of Ireland,” edited by Mr. John T. Gilbert, F. S. A. The initial part of the life of St. Patrick which has long been missing from the Book of . Armagh, is, we understand, extant in the Brussels manuscript, which will shortly be published bv the Bollandists.	.
—The private collection of books belonging to the late Duke of Ossuma, who died last year, and regarded as the finest private library in Spain, is advertised for sale. The manuscripts are numerous and all of them exceedingly valuable. Among the most important are: A copy of the diary of Columbus, written by Las Casas; illuminated versions of Dante and Petrarch; some autograph poems of Lope de Vega and Calderon, arid a codex of the “ Roman de la Rose,” which is probably the most valuable manuscript in the library. A proposal has been made to the Spanish Government to purchase the whole collection, which in- . eludes, also some fine pictures, a series of suits of armor, and rare objects of art. The price demanded is about $1,000,000.
Books and Periodicals.
—The May Century makes appeal to a large variety of tastes. In history and adventure there are three illustrated papers: “The Aborigines and the Colonists,” by Edward Eggleston, who brings to light many curious and interesting facts; the first of two papers by H. H., on the Spanish Missions of Southern California, entitled “Father Tunipero and his.Work”—in which a thorough study is made of the romantic settlement of California from Mexico; and.thirdly, a paper of great readableness and ethnological value, by Frank H. Cushing, on his “ Adventures in Zuni.” The illustrations of all these papers have been made with the strictest regard for historical accuracy. There are three sketches: .One of Cardinal Manning (with a portrait which is printed.as a frontispiece), written.-by Mr. C. Keegan Paul, the English pub-
I
534	THE HOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
lisher and author of a paper on Cardinal Newman which appeared in the Century some months ago; a second, an exposition of Salvini’s King Lear, by Emma Lazarus, with a drawing of the great tragedian in this character, made from life by Alexander; and third, a light essay by Henry Tames Jr. on du Maurier’s caricatures in “Punch,” and on the artist’s relations to London society. With the last are reproduced a number of du Maurier’s best drawings engraved anew in America from the original cartoons for “Punch,” by permission of its publishers. Apropos of the recent criticisms of American literature and American writing about England, Mr. Charles Dudley Warner makes a retort courteous to his critics in a humorous paper entitled “ The English Volunteers during the Late Invasion.” “ Moral Purpose in Art,” by the late Sydney Lanier, treats a theme of wide interest'not unrelated to the current discussion of the novel. There is also an illustrated paper on “The Father of American Libraries” (the Philadelphia Public Library), by Bunford Samuel. In fiction there is an installment of Mr. Howells’s serial “ A Woman’s Reason ”; A short story of F. R. Stockton in the Rudder Grange series—“Pomona’s Daughter” and the first half of a story of much freshness and humor bv Joel Chandler Harris (“Uncle Remus”), namely “At Teagues Poteet’s.”
Darwin and Humboldt: Memorial Notices by Prof. T. W. Huxley, Prof. Agassiz, and others. Price 15 cents. J. Fitzgerald, Publisher, 30 Lafayette Place, New York.
The death of Mr. Darwin called forth a number of Memoirs upon his works in sundry branches of natural science, as Botany, Geology, Psychology, etc., by the foremost scientists of the dav. Several of these are reproduced in this volume. Besides these, it contains the celebrated memorial address delivered by the late Professor Agassiz on the occasion of the centennial anniversary of Baron Alexander von Humboldt, who was confessedly the most eminent scientific investigator of the present century, and he earned his highest distinction by his famous exploration of the wilds of the South American Continent, particularly the basin of the Amazon river. He was in fact the first European scientist to traverse that vast wilderness and to bring into view the wonders of nature there displayed. These two great students and travellers have infused a new life into scientific research, and it is fitting that a record of their services should be made accessible in the form of a cheap publication to everyone interested^ in .the progress of science.
Books and How to Use Them. Some hints to Readers and Students. By J. C. Van Dyke. New York. Fords, Howard & Hulbert, 1SS3.
This little book comprises 159 pages, is neatly printed, and has an attractive appearance. It embodies the views and experiences of the author with reference to the considerations and motives that should actuate people in selecting and rea'ding books. It also gives a number of hints as’to the tests which determine the value of books for gen
eral and special reading. It indicates some of the distinctions between books good and bad, interest-ingand dull, moral and immoral, useful and worthless, etc. However, the suggestions and precepts which it contains would naturally occur to most persons habituated to reading. It holds that one should read with care and deliberation, permitting the mind to assimilate all facts of importance. The habits of certain, noted authors with regard to the time, manner and incidents of their work, arc briefly described; and the inference is drawn that for study an isolated and plainly-furnished room is the best place, and the night the best time. It nevertheless candidly admits that no positive rules of general application can be laid down for the guidance of people in this behalf. Each person must judge for himself as to what methods of reading and what books arc most in accordance o	.	__
with his tastes and aptitudes. The following, which shows the love of certain noted men for books, is probably the most interesting passage in the work, and hence it will be read with profit and regarded as instructive:
“ Books command our thoughts, and we respect them: respect is the parent of love, and we love them: the essence of love is possession, and we possess them: and they are loves more faithful than are those professing fai ‘ moie. They do not change, nor do they fade and wither; and that which they are to us in early youth is still the same in old age. Petrarch found them faithful when princes and court beauties had proven false. His after life was devoted entirely to their society. Indeed, one morning he was found.dead in his library at Arqua, seated at a table, with his elbow resting upon the open page of a book. The love of Gibbon for these friends, formed latter in life, was unfaltering. He was accustomed to speak of his library as his ‘ seraglio of beauties. . . . For years Richelieu scarcely slept, that he might indulge his passion for books. The day was spent in state affairs, and the night was passed in the company of his ‘ friends.’ When Schelley’s body was recovered after the fatal storm off Leghorn, in his coat-pocket was found his well-beloved and inseparable yEschylus. The great Plato was found dead with the | Mimes of Sophron under his pillow. Bacon speaks of books as ‘ true friends that will neither flatter nor dissemble;’ and Ben Jonson, in an address to a friend, says: “ ‘ Then do I love thee, and behold thy ends
In making thy friends books and thy books friends.’ ’’
College Gossip.
—Nathaniel Hayes, of-Boston, who died recently, left Harvard University more than $250,000.
—College theatricals are not allowed at Eng-o	o
lish universities, being forbidden by the Faculty.
—Oxford university authorities are thinking of abolishing the wearing of gowns on the streets. CT
—Badger.	,	•
—St. Maty’s College, Ky., has started an Alumni Association. It has already a membership of 64 old students.
—A. E. Kent, of San Francisco, class of 1853, has given Yale College $60,000 to be used in erecting a chemical laboratory. ‘
—Oberlin has secured $23,000 of the $25,000 necessary for the endowment of a special professorship of political economy.—Badger.

THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
535
—$75,000 have been appointed by the regents of Michigan for the purchase of books for the Li-ibrary of the University of Michigan.—Argonaut.
—The library rooms at St. Vincent’s College, Cape Girardeau, have been improved. A mew reading-room has been fitted up for the use of the students.
—The man who will find a receipt for shining in evening society, and in recitation the following morning, will receive a gold medal and the heartfelt gratitude of the college community.—Round-Table.
—Columbia College dates back to 1759, the money being raised by lottery. It has nbw an endowment of $5,000,000, and had last year 1,857 students. - Notwithstanding' its large endowment, the annual receipts from students, and the large bequests frequently made, Columbia says she must have more money if a Women’s College is to be •opened! Colleges and universities must be frightfully expensive things. $5,000,000 endowment, and yet not enough! Well, we don’t want to run a college.
SONG OF THE CHEMIST.
Oh come where the Cyanides silently flow, And the Carburets droop o’er the Oxides below; Where the rays of Potassium lie white on the hill, Come, oh, come!
Tumti, turn, turn! .	..
Peroxide of Soda and urani-um!
While Alcohol’s liquid at thirty degrees, And no chemical change can affect manganese; While alkalies flourish and acids are free, My heart shall be constant, sweet Science, to thee:
Yes, to thee! '
.	Fiddledum dee!
Zinc, borax, and bismuth:‘and H2 O3.
—London Fun.
Exchanges.	‘
—The Cornell Daily Sun says the Professors at that institution seem to be the most assiduous players of lawn tennis. (We should like to see the Notre Dame Professors out in a scrub game of baseball.) The names and residence of Cornell students are hereafter to appear.in the city directory.	’
— The Premier, published monthly by the 1st Class of the Fall River High School, is more remarkable for the quantity than the quality of its reading-matter. The ads. arc sandwiched with it, and give the paper a very unattractive appearance. The editorials do very well, however, and the page edited by the “Siamese Twins” is?' truly enjoyable.	1
—The Wooster Collegian has a good article on “ The Nebular Theory. We don’t know what to gay about its “ Alexander the Great.” It’s a puzzler. We doubt if the doughty Alexander him-jself could make head or tail of it, if he were called in judgment. For aught we can make out, it may be all tail. We are curious to know the writer’s authority for the assertion that Philip of Macedon used to get strapped and borrow a quar-.
ter occasionally to buy cigarettes. As Philip probably went to school when a boy, we can allow the strapping; but the cigarette story is tough, and hard to swallow without a copious libation.
—Just as we foresaw, and remarked not long ago, The Phonetic Journal (Bath, England) has been making strong weekly additions to its subscription list since January. At the close of last year there was a subscription list of 13,850; now it numbers 15,750. Thomas Allen Reed’s Lecture on Phrasing, Frederick Pitman’s “ Hints on Teaching and Learning Phonography,” and the weekly instalment of “The Reporter’s Assistant,” add greatly to the value of the Journal. “ Reporting Sketches,” by T. A. Reed, which lately appeared in stenography in the London Reporteds Magazine. have been begun in ordinary print in the Phonetic Journal. These sketches, besides being racily written, contain many valuable hints to young phonographers. The price of subscription to The . Phonetic Journal is $1.50 a year.	,
—The Chronicle (University of Michigan), one of the handsomest and best edited college papers in the United States, has found it necessary to increase the number of its pages from 24 to 28. The editors say that “it-is quite a daring, and almost unheard of venture, to change the appearance, character and size in the middle of a volume,” but the best interests of the paper require it. We fail to see any other change of “appearance ” in our handsome western cotemporary than v the plethoric proportions, indicative of plenty and to spare. For college news the Chronicle is unsurpassed among bi-weeklies, and the literary’ department has been much improved under the present board’s management. R. C. P.’s “Knowledge is Power” is very well written, but why does he continue to hang on to that rag of a story about Galileo and the Inquisition? A few years ago a man would be thought a fool if he dared to say. that Galileo was not tortured, imprisoned, and had his eyes put out; no sensible man will believe that part of the story now, and if so much was false, why not the rest?
—The Cornell Era has for some time been quizzing the “ Committee of Absences ” at its college, and among other things says that the Committee has recently imported some curious test machines. The Era goes on to say:	'
“ Among these curious little machines may be mentioned the infallible, self-regulating, double back action,, non-freezing, suction, force and lift pump, by which the . whole truth may be ascertained without even causing the •cutter’ to blush. Another one tells whether or no your grandmother has been sick;-and by a bell attachment in- dicates with the mathematical certainty of O- W. J. whether the aforesaid grandmother has died. An almost invisible electric needle will also indicate the exact number of times the g. m. has died. There is also a Tooth-ache Tester and . Ear-ache Monitor warranted to give you dead away in case you tell a falsehood about certain pains in the ears or teeth*. The ‘ Stiff-annihilator ’ used for general purposes is 'too complicated to admit of a description. But the instrument in which the Committee takes most pride is a nonprevaricating mirror which applied to an applicant’s mouth -will instantly reflect the number of spots on the tongue. These spots*indicate the presence of excrescent ‘blinds’ liable to be given the Committee on Absences.” . . ..
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Notre Dame, May 5, 1883.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Sixteenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
- Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class and by their general good conduct
■ Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
•	Old Students should take it.
- Terms, Sr.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Our Staff.
Geo; E. Clarke, ’83.
Albert F. Zahm, ’83.
T. Ewing Steele, ’84.
Wm. H. Arnold, ’83. R. M. Anderson, ’83. J.Larkin (Law),’S3.
—The Univers (Paris), April 19th, publishes a letter of sympathy from Very Rev. Father Sorin on the death of M. Louis Veuillot. The Very Rev. Superior-General feelingly speaks of the friendship existing between M. Veuillot and himself, and eloquently portrays the greaUgood the deceased writer had done to the cause of religion even in our own United States, and concludes: “I shall not be the only one to pay the just tribute of admiration and gratitude to the distinguished writer whom God has called to Himself.”	'
—We. are pleased to announce that the Right Rev. John Watterson, D. D., Bishop of Columbus, Ohio/ will deliver the Commencement Oration this year. Bishop Watterson, prior to his elevation to the Episcopate, was, for a .number of years, President of Mt. St. Mary’s College,.Emmitsburg, Md., in which position he was distinguished for his literary attainments and administrative abilities. After the death of Bishop. Rosecrans, he was,;in 1880, appointed to the See of Columbus. In addition to his scholarly acquirements, the Rt. Rev. Prelate'Has the reputation of being a finished orator, and we are. assured that all who attend the Commencement . exercises will, hear an oration of unusual excellence. y . . ..	..
— The ’ Varsity, (University of Toronto) of April 24th, republishes our editorial announcing the “Antigone,” and adds:
“The Scholastic is in error in saying that the‘Antigone’ was produced here without a libretto. A libretto was printed, and the choruses were sung to Mendelssohn’s music. We wish Notre Dame all success in an undertaking which we know from experience will prove by no means a light one.”	’
We make the correction with pleasure, and regret the unintentional misstatement that gave cause for it. The ’ Varsity is right in saying that the ‘Antigone’ is no light undertaking; but, with the dramatic talent available at the University there is a clear road to success if the proper means arc taken.	'
—Letters have been received from Very Rev. Father Sorin, C. S. C., conveying the glad news of his safe arrival on the shores of France. All at Notre Dame are rejoiced to know that this pleasing information has come from the venerated Superior himself, and at the same time they hope that his return voyage may be as safe and as pleasant. Father Sorin’s little charges—the Minims— whom he characteristically styles “the Princes,” have not been forgotten, as the following letter will show:
’	' On Board L’Amerique, April 14, 18S3.
My Dear Young Princes:
To you my first lines! You had likewise my last ones from New York. No wonder: the hand is the handmaid of the heart among honest people. I remember our Divine Master’s sweet declaration: u sinite parvitlos venire ad Ale.? ” and why ? Ah, because of their angelical innocence! This is the reason, no doubt, of my daily increasing love for those our Blessed'Lord so admirably taught us‘to love, above the rest of mankind.	'
-When we first saw the land at 1 r o’clock I felt in duty bound to thabk with all my heart the loving souls to whose fervent prayers we were indebted for our happy transit from the American to the European shores. Receive, then, my first tribute of grateful acknowledgments. Owing to your pious and constant aspirations to Heaven in our behalf, the winds have been propitious, the sea beautifully smooth, and the moon herself has kindly consented .to grace our nights with a charming and heavenly light. Before long, I trust, I shall have the pleasure to express to each one of you the same in person, crediting you likewise for all the blessings of our speedy return to our dear home. Continue, then, to pray for us, and above all, to secure on your prayers, by your exceptional behavior, an irresistible power for any favor you ask.
Your loving friend,
-	.	-	E. Sorin, C. S. C.
The Euglossians.
The “Annual Spring Exercises ” of the Euglos-sian Association were held Sunday evening, April 29th. Right. Rev. Joseph Machebceuf, Bishop of Denver, Col., who was visiting the College, was present, and the entertainment was made complimentary to him. The exercises were held in the Rotunda of the. College which had been handsomely decorated for . the occasion. At half-past seven, a large: audience ; assembled, consisting'of the Rt/Rev.: Prelate, President Walsh, the -rev- , erend clergy, numerous visitors, from abroad, and
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
the students. A somewhat lengthy, but, withal, varied and interesting programme was presented, which wc print in full in our local columns. The entertainment was opened with music by the College Band. The piece selected was rather long, but in its rendition the Band gave evidence of that high degree of excellence to which it has attained under the direction of Prof. Paul. It is not too much to say that, for a number of years, this organization has never been in a better condition; and it is no slight gratification to record this, for a good band adds not a little to the pleasures of college life, and especially to those of Commencement time. After the opening piece, Master C. Cavaroc stepped forward and addressed the Bishop in French. His pronunciation was faultless; his voice clear and distinct, -though at times a little low, owing, no doubt, to a feeling of timidity nat-ural to one so young. Mr. F. Terrazas delivered, with force and impressiveness, a declamation in Spanish; he was followed by Masters F. Johnson and W. Schott, who gave the well-known duett, “Hear Me, Norma!” It was exquisitely sung, but occasionally there was an apparent falseness of tone. Mr. W. J. McCarthy then addressed the Bishop in English, welcoming him to Notre Dame, in the name of the students, and formally dedicating to him the exercises of the evening'. The address was well-written, and very appropriate, and delivered with distinct articulation and agreeable modulation of voice: it served, too, as an introduction to the remaining numbers, which, as may be seen from the programme, were given by members of the Euglossian Society. ' The declamation, by Mr. -J. J. Conway, was spirited and well delivered. Mr. E. A. Otis was very effective in the rendition of “ The Miser,” but, owing apparently to a cold, his voice was not always at his command. Messrs. Marlette and O’Brien were easy and graceful in the delivery of their recitations. Mr. Noble was greeted with applause on his appearance; but we are inclined to think that the greater part of his audience were disappointed, as they expected something similar to what was given on a former occa-sion; this time, the}- did not seem to know “ what it was all about,” as the speaker’s voice was too low to be in any way effective. The speech of Master O’Connoi" was eminently patriotic, and the “Recitation” by Mr. Lally was interesting and instructive. .Messrs. Burns and O’Neill, in their declamations, displayed great dramatic force and power, accompanied with appropriate gestures. Mr. E. Yrisarri delivered an address in Spanish to the. Bishop. Though understood but by a few, this young gentleman spoke with a clear, ringing voice, and with a force and earnestness of manner such as to retain throughout the attention of the whole -audience. Mr. Otis B. Spencer “brought down the house” in a humorous recitation entitled “Pleading at the Bar.” . Messrs. Tinley and Clarke, taking respectively the parts of Brutus and Cassius, presented the quarrel scene from “Julius Ciesar.” Both these young gentlemen are recognized as the “stars ” of the Euglossians, and whenever they appear some grand elocution ary .“effort” is expected,
and the audience is not " disappointed. - Oriv this; , occasion they even surpassed themselves? ~ We : • may well say that the “scene” could not be made " J more realistic, though the speakers labored under the disadvantage of being deprived of stage effects, costumes, etc? It was a fitting conclusion to an . entertainment in every way successful. Great credit is due to the direction of Prof. Joseph A. Lyons, . to whose careful training the members of the/Eu- .	.
glossian Society are indebted for their proficiency . . in voice-culture and action.	’	■?,:;? -V
We must not forget to mention the excellent • music, vocal and instrumental, contributed in the ? F intervals between the recitations and declamations.' The overture “ Don Quixote ” was given by'the . / Orchestra with its usual skill and precision. . Mas- - ? ter Devereux sang his song fairly; he has a"good . voice, which, however, requires as yet.some culti- ) " vation. Messrs. Gibert and Guthrie‘gave-their
O -	* -.
duo in excellent style, and received great applause.
On the conclusion of the entertainment, the Bishop arose and spoke at some length, thanking . the students for their greetings, and complimented all who took part in the exercises. Then, thinking L . it fair to reply in their own tongue to those who had addressed him in French and Spanish, he spoke for a short time in these languages. In conclud-ing\ he narrated several interesting incidents of his early missionary life, and remarked that, as he was to remain a few days, he would take, occasion to meet the students at another time, and en- .	/
tertain them with recollections of his experiences . . -twenty or thirty years ago in the wilds of Mexico , . ■ and Colorado. This announcement was greeted. f with applause, and all retired to the “grand march ” bv the Band.	. J
Personal.
—John McIntyre (Com’l), of ’77, is .in-business - v at Grand Rapids, Mich. *	.	’ v'
—The Rev. Frederick William Pape/of ’6S, is y : the esteemed’pastor at Carroll, Carroll Co., Iowa. /
—Homer Boardman, of ’72, is in the dry goods , business in Lyons, Iowa; and is doing well in :y. every respect.	CiC
—-Messrs. Elmer Crocket and Ralph S;-Tar- .^.
bell, of the South Bend Tribune, were at the Col-.
lege last week.	Y'FJ .
—Mrs. John Arkins, of.Denver, Colorado, visitecb ' the .College during the week and entered her,..sori?F?Fk^ Eddie as a student.	J- ’ L	J
—Frank Crapser, of ’70, is farming near Lyons,, Iowa, and is doing well. Frank is oneof the
strong men of the district.	. F 5
—We are pleased,to learn that.John:English;of
’75, is greatly improved in health byjiis trip South; -in. fact, he is no longer an invalid. '	'-'FF
-—Daniel Donahoe, of ’79, is practising; law.iri?; 'Y Chicago, and is doing very-well-. His ;address is;
Rooms 1 and 2, 135 La Salle-St. , < . .
. —W. Bruce LeffingweU,:of; ’72, is: County?J<e-^^
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
corder, and may be addressed bj- his old friends and classmates at the Clinton Court House, Clinton, Iowa.
—W. Adams Widdecombe, of ’79, now traveling in Europe, has written to one of his friendsfrom Paris and states he expects to return for Commencement.	■
—C. M. Proctor, C. E., ’75, is the Manager of the Telephone Exchange at Elkhart, Indiana. Notre Dame, South Bend, Elkhart, and Goshen are now within speaking distance.
—Mr. and Mrs. C. D. McPhee, Denver, Col.; Mr. and Mrs. G. T. Stamm, Milwaukee, Wis.; Mr. W. D. Hctz, Muskegon, Mich. ; Mr. J. Kraus, Cincinnati; and Mr. C. Cavaroc, New Orleans, visited the College during the week, to witness the First Communion of their children.
—Mr. J. Reelev, for some time editor of the Denver World, and now a member of the celebrated firm of Feeley & Co., Providence, R. I., called last week. He said he had heard much of Notre Dame, but what he san- far exceeded his expectations. We shall be pleased to see him again.
—Rev. H. A. Brann, D. D-, pastor of St. Elizabeth’s Church, Washington Heights, N. Y., who delivered the sermon at the consecration of Rt. Rev. Dr. Richter, Bishop of Grand Rapids, spent a day at the College last week. He expressed himself surprised and pleased with all he saw at Notre Dame, and regretted that he could not remain longer.
—Among thewisitors during the past week were Mr. and Mrs. P. Murphy, Clinton, Iowa; M. J. Mooney, St. Mary’s Ohio; W. H. Welch, Des Moines, Iowa; Rev. John F. Lovett, Battle Creek, Mich.; Rev. JamesRonayne, Hubberdston, Mich.; W. B. Handy, Three Rivers, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. Charles Kuhn, Nashville, Tenn.; Wm. Martin, Marshall, Mich.; James and Charles Walsh, and Mrs. Devine, Chicago; Mrs. and Miss Coghlin, Toledo, Ohio.
—Messrs. G. Mason and R. C. Faux, of Chicago, were at the College last week on business connected with the building of the Dome. Mr. Mason—father of Carlisle Mason, of the Preparatory Department—is Vice-President of the Excelsior Iron Works, Chicago, of which Mr. Faux is the General Superintendent, and in which some 250 or 300 men are employed. The visitors expressed surprise at the complete equipments of the mechanical departments at Notre Dame.
Local Items.
—The burros are lively.	a
—Hold on to your hats!
—“ Macbeth ’’ next Wednesday.
,—Brutus and Cassius were superb.
—The wolf was at hand, but not on the hill.
—The Band distinguished itself on Sunday night.
—Is the Dude any relation to II Dudlo Americano ?	.
—Competitions next week in the Scientific Course.
—The crews took their first practice on Sunday evening.	_
—The “Princes” are precise as regards ton-sorial artists.
—Lost—A razor. Finder please return to Bro. Eugene.	-•
—The “r” months have gone, but the Trid. Squam. is here.
—The St. Cecilians gave their closing debate last Wednesday night.
—The Prof, of Physics is engaged on an intensely dramatic play.
—The Euglossians will present a new series of exercises in a short time.
—Rumor has it that the “ Princes” have engaged a special tonsorial artist.
—The Thespians are resting on their laurels, but we hope to see them again, ere long.
—The Philopatrians arc actively engaged in rehearsing the “ Prodigal Law Student.”
—Elbel’s Orchestra discoursed choice music while the Juniors supped, last Saturday.
—The members of the Crescent Club will hold several literary reunions during the month.
—The groves back of the Professed House and St. Aloysius’ Home arc sadly in need of some care.
—Two dozen flower vases, the first instalment of ornaments, have been placed in the Minims’ Park.
—Conspicuous among the audience on Sunday evening was the Assistant Superior of St. Aloysius’ Home.
—Our “Greek typos” are actively at work in setting the “text” of the libretto for the “ Antigone.”
—The Orchestra has been re-inforced by the accession of Mr. George McErlaine, who plays the 2d violin part. .
—The Euglossians tender a vote of thanks to B. Anselm and Prof. Paul for favors received at their last entertainment.	•
—A new barn is being built which will be twice as large as the old one. It is intended as a repository for carriages, wagons and farm implements.
—Would it not be well for all the players in the Orchestra—and the Band, too—to be seated whilst'engaged in the performance of their duties? '''	■	..
—The Music Hall is being painted. B. Frederick can be seen poised between heaven and earth, busily engaged in the transformation of the
'	-	.00
cornices.	'
—The botanical report has been impeded this week through the sec. being overcrowded with work. A two weeks’ report will appear in our next, and will be extremely interesting.	■
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
539
—The Parks in front of the College are being; i •	__ O	O I
put in thorough order. The paths have been cleaned and gravelled, the evergreens trimmed, j and flowers placed in the vases.	!
—An acceptable piece of furniture, in the shape i of a clock, has been donated to the Senior reading- ‘ room by Rev. D. J. Hagerty, C. S. C., of South Bend. The Seniors are grateful to the Rev. donor.
—The ceremonies of the opening of the month of May Devotions were very impressive. An eloquent sermon was preached by the Right Rev. Bishop Machebceuf, followed by solemn Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament.
—The “First Communion boys” enjoyed an extra “rec” last Friday. They visited South Bend and were photographed by McDonald. It is reported that they intend going on a grand excursion to the Farm to-morrow.
—Apropos of the noble tragedian:
Was he serious?
We could not tell.
AV as he comic. Or trying to sell?
—A new use has been found for the remnants of galvanized iron: they may take the place of guano. It is supposed that the ferruginous nature of the material, aided by the electro-magnetic forces which it possesses, will impart strength and vitality to the soil.
—A Society has been formed at Notre Dame bearing the expressive name of‘The Dudes.’ ’’—'Varsity.
The “Society” has disbanded, owing partly to some slight difficulty in perfecting an organization, and partly to a few pecuniary and social considerations. Sec?
—The “ trailing arbutus,” which forms such a prominent element in Spring poetry, is to be found only in one locality in the neighborhood of Notre Dame. Owing, however, to the present state of science, we have decided to hold to absolute secrecy as to its whereabouts.
—Harry Whitman, who entered one of the Phonography classes only last October, has worked so zealously at this branch of study that he was able to take a verbatim report of Rt. Rev. Bishop Gilmour’s address on Tuesday evening last. Those who saw the transcript of his notes say that it is excellent.
—A beautiful Regina Cceli, the composition of Prof. Paul, was sung at Vespers last Thursday. It was said to be the finest morcean of Church music heard at Notre Dame in many a day. A‘-great feature of the piece wasffhe duo for soprano and alto, which was sung by Masters Johnston and Schott with good effect.
—Mast. , one of our young disciples of Izaak Walton, met with a mishap last Friday afternoon. In his haste to respond to the call of a “bite,” he fell into a pool of water. He averred that the water was wet. However that may be, he appeared to be considerably dampened as he sadly wended his way homewards.
—Last Tuesday morning, the Juniors presented Prof. J. F. Edwards. LL. D.. with an elegant Parisian clock. It was intended as a slight acknowledgment for many services rendered in the -arrangement of the reading-room and libraries. An appropriate address was read by Master Taylor, to which the Prof, gracefully responded.
—Our thanks are due to the author, Rev. Prof. Zahm, for a pamphlet copy of his lecture on “ The Catholic Church, and Modern Science,” heretofore noticed in the Sentinel. The work is calculated to do much good, and we trust it may have a wide circulation. Notre Dame is rapidly increasing its literary and moral influence, and may be considered already at the head of Western Institutions of learning.— Ypsilanti Sentinel.
—“ Last Sunday afternoon, the genial porter of the College was'alarmed by the loud ringing of the door bell. In haste he answered the call and found at the door three fair children of Eve. They wished to see certain Seniors*who at the moment, were not in the immediate vicinity, and consequently this reasonable request could not be' granted. The visitors were obliged to depart as they came.” N. B.—Will some one give a lucid explanation of the foregoing?
—On Thursday evening, the Rt. Rev. Bishop Machebceuf was made the recipient of a goldheaded cane, the gift of the Mexican students, whose fathers and grandfathers the good Bishop had known intimately. The gift was accompanied with an appropriate address, which the Prelate kindly acknowledged. The cane is a fine piece of workmanship, and bears the inscription: “ A Mgr. J. P. Machebceuf, de sus hijos Mejicanos en la Universidad de Notre Dame, Ind.”
—The crews chosen for the June “ Regatta ” are as follows:
EVANGELINE.	AV’t.	MINNEHAHA.	
M. T Burns, bow.	i *45	:F. Gallagher, bow.	'] *50-
H. Noble. 2d q	: *59	;R. Flemming. 2d:	: *45
J. R. Marlette, 3d;	: 171	>J. Keller, 3d: jM. Garret, 4th:	1S0
T. Flvnn, 4th:	■ 161		i 1S5
AV. Arnold, 5th;	: *59	!E. Chelini, 5th;	*75
J. Peters, Stroke.	: *59	!J. O’Reilly, Stroke.	j{ *55
J. McIntyre, Coxswain.	; *=9	iC. Tinley, Coxswain.	;i *45
Total AVeight,	> 1083	(Total Weight, 1	4 **35
Av. AV’t.	1 *55	{Av. AVt.	i! 163
—The “ Princes ” gave Rt. Rev. Bishop Machebceuf a reception at the “Palace,” on Monday. Master B. B. Lindsey, assisted by Masters W. McPhee and J. Wright, all of Denver, read him a very nice address in behalf of the Minim department. The Bishop, in response, thanked his young friends for the great pleasure they had given him. He entertained them with interesting anecdotes of his early missionary life among the Indians. The Minims were no less delighted with his interesting speech than with his amiable, happy manner. What particularly pleased them was a promise he
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
made them to ask Rev. President Walsh to ffive o them an extra recreation-day.
—Last Thursday evening, the Seniors, St. Ce-' cilians and the Junior Euglossians were entertained by the Rt. Rev. Bishop Machebceuf with some of his personal reminiscences of the “early days” of Colorado, to which he added anecdotes relating to missions in Mexico and Ohio “ long before you were born.” We regret exceedingly that we cannot reproduce the words of the venerable Bishop, as they could not but prove interesting to manv besides his hearers. When he had concluded, Mr. T. Solon, in a few, well-chosen words, expressed the thanks of the students for the honor which had been conferred upon them, as also for the interesting\and instructive lecture with which the good Bishop had entertained them.
—On the Feast of the Ascension a number of the students made their First Holy Communion. The ceremonies attending this sacred act were very solemn. Before Mass, a procession was formed by the clergy, community and students who conducted the youthful communicants from the College to the church. Solemn High Mass was sung bv Rev. President Walsh, with Fathers Stoffel and Fitte as deacon and subdeacon. The ceremonies were carried out under the direction of Mr. J. Burke, C. S. C. Before Communion the Rev. celebrant preached a very impressive sermon addressed particularly to those who were to approach the Hol}7 Table for the first time. The parents and friends of many of the young students were present. In the afternoon, solemn Vespers were sung, after which the ceremony of the renewal of the Baptismal vows was carried out with great solemnity. Rev. Vice-President Toohey preached an eloquent sermon appropriate to the occasion. -
—The members of the Crescent Club availed themselves of the arrival of the Rt. Rev. Bishop of Denver, to give a reception complimentary to His Lordship. The club-rooms were brilliantly lighted and decorated for the occasion. As each guest arrived, he was introduced by Father Walsh, President of the University, to the venerable prelate, who recognized among the names announced many whose bearers were the sons and grandsons of persons whom he had baptized and prepared for their First Communion. The Bishop had a kind word for each, and he told manv amusing anecdotes to illustrate missionary life in the far West. Elbel’s orchestra of South Bend contributed to the social success of the evening by executing the “ Chimes of Normandy ” and other choice selections. Tea, cakes, and coffee were served, ,and a general good time enjoyed by all. Among the guests present were several members of the Faculty; Mrs. J. Henry, of Cincinnati; Mrs. Arkins,, of Denver; Mrs. and Miss Coghlin, of Toledo, Ohio, and several others from a distance. .	.
—-The first game of ball between the “Universities” and “ Star of the East ” took place in presence of a large concourse of spectators on the Seniors’. Campus, last Tuesday afternoon, many of. the Fac-ulty.being present. It was a mere practice game;
and this, no doubt, accounts for the many errors made, and for the general poor playing characteristic of the game. The nines looked well in their bright new uniforms, the “ Universities ” wearing gray suits and blue stockings, while the “ Star of the East” were decked out in white with red stockings. Though error succeeded error, manv brilliant plays were made at times, among- which may be mentioned a difficult left hand fly catch by Bailey, centrefield for the “ Blues.” Gallagher and Marlette formed the battery for the “ Reds,” and Wheatlev and Monoghan for the “ Blues,” The “Star of the East” won bv a score of 21 to 8. Umpire, R. Fleming. During the game between the “Reds” and “Blues” a most exciting contest, judging from the amount of noise made, was taking place on the Junita grounds. Clearv seemed to be doing all the “ leather chasing.”
—The following is the programme of the entertainment given by the Euglossians, complimcn tary to Rt. Rev. J. Machebceuf, D. D., Bishop of Denver, Col., on the evening of the 29th ult.:
Music (Bassano Quickstep).................:... .Keller
N. D. U. C. B.
French Address.......'....................C. Cavaroc
Declamation in Spanish....................F. Terrazas
Song—“Hear Me, Norma!”......................Bellini
F. Johnson, W. Schott.
Address of the Evening.................W.	J. McCarthy
“ Last Hours of Benedict Arnold ”........J.	J. Conway
Song—“ Now the Swallows are Returning”... .Schondorf
R. Devereux. ‘“The Miser”................................E. A. Otis
“ You Put no Flowers on Papa’s Grave!” (Recitation)
J. R. Marlette.
Jlecitation Sywfathefique...............II.	H. Noble
Overture—“Don Quixote”...........University Orchestra
“Mary Stuart’s Last Prayer”..............E.	J. O’Brien
Speech (Patriotic)....................   M.	O’Connor
“ Lives of Great Men arc Imperishable”......T. Lallv
“ Bounding Boat”—Barcarole................F. Kucken
L. Gibert, J. Guthrie..
Damon and Pythias........................M.	T. Burns
“By the Shore of the Potomac”............J.	P. O’Neill
Address in Spanish........................E. Yrisarri
M usic— Serenade..............................'. Keller
N. D. U.' C. B. “Pleading at the Bar”....................O.	B. Spencer
“The Quarrel Scene,” from “Julius C;csar,”
■ G. E. Clarke, C. A. Tinlev. ‘
XVVUKXl tVv . -.....IV L.	1UU1.1IVVU.UI, U.
Music—Retiring March......................N. D. U. C. B.
Roll of Honor.
(The following list includes the names of those students whose conduct during the past week has given entire satisfaction to the Faculty.]
.	. SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Armijo, Ashford, Anderson, Arnold, Brady. Burns, Bolton, J.. Burke, Browne, Buchanan, Cavanagh, T. Carroll, A. Coghlin, W. Coghlin, Conway, Clements, Claffey, Jas. Delaney, Eisenhauer, Ewing, T. Fenlon, Fenton, Fleming, Farrell, Gray, Golonski, J. Gallagher, Godfrey, Gooley, Grouty Harris, . Johnston, Kleiber, Kolars, -Kimmell, Koehler, Kuhn, Kavanagh, Larkin, W. J. McCarthy, Meyer, McCabe, Monoghan, McErlaine, Mullen, S. Murdock, C. Murdock, Magoffin, Morse, T. McNamara, J; McNamara, Morris, Ott. O’Dea, Orchard, O’Connor, O’Neill, Otis, O’Brien, Pouf,. .Parrott, Pillars, Quinn, Rogers,~W. Ryan, Rudge, Solon, Terrazas, Witwer, Whitman, Whalen, Yrisairi, Zahnle, Zurbuch, Molloy.
.1
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
54i
' JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Armijo, Arnold, Brice, Browne, Brewster, Ber-thelet. Bacon, Braunsdorf, Cassilly, Crawford, Cavaroc, Curtis, Danielson, Dupke, Darling, C. Dennis, R. Devine, J. Devine, Dwenger, Dunn, De Haven, Dillon, Doren-berg, Dolan, Devereux, Eisenhauer, H. Foote, M. Foote, Fendrich, Fishel, Foster, Fisher, Grothaus, Gerlach, Hagerty, Hibbeler, Hess, Hermann, Halligan, Hannavin, Hag-enbarth, Howard, W. Uetz, J. Uetz, Handy, Jeannot,* Kahmann, Kerndt, Kengel, J. Kelly, Livingston, LefBng-well, McCawley, Mug, T. McGrath, J. McGrath, Metz, McGordon, McDonnell, Murphy, Miller, J. V. O’Donnell, Ohnick, Porter, Rothschild, Ruppe, F. Ryan, J. Ryan, Reach, Rhodus, Schott, Smith, Schillo, Seegers, Shannon, Stark, Schaeffer, Subert, Terrazas, Talbot, Taylor, Violette, Warner, Wile, Wilkinson, Wright, W allace, Weber, Waixel-, •Warren, Yrisarri, Zeigler.
'	’ o	_
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Masters Anglin, Ackerman, Adams, Beall, Bunker. Chaves, Colwell, Cummings, G. Costigan, E. Costigan, Coad, Dirksmeyer, Devereux, W. Devine, A. Devine, Delaplane, Dungan, Fix, Hopkins, Hynes, Huestis, Harris. Johnson, A. Kelly, Krause, Kellner, Kane, Keeffe, Luther, Landenwich, Lare, B. Lindsej', C. Lindsey, McNaughton, McKey, McGordon, E. McGrath, J. McGrath, J. J. McGrath, M'cGuire, McPhee, Morrison, Metz, Moss, Masi, F. Mullen, A. Mullen, Nester, Noonan, F. Otis, B. Otis. Papin, W. Prindiville, D. Prindiville, Quinlin, Rebori, Roberts, Spencer, Stange, Smith, Stewart, Sommers, Schmitz, Studebaker, F. Stamm, G. Stamm, Schmauss, Schicker. Thomas, W. Tomlinson, C. Tomlinson,' W. Walsh, E. Walsh, Welch, Wright, W. Whitney, Warner, L. Young. C. Young.
* Omitted last week by mistake.
Class Honors.
[In the following list may be found the names of those students who have given entire satisfaction in all their classes during the month past.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Messrs. McDonnell, Courtney, Jeannot, Mug, T. Walsh, Kengel, Dillon, Taylor, Hess, Zeigler, Hagerty, Whalen, Mullen, T. Warren, Pour, Clements, Brady, Buchanan, Ott, Ashford, Keller, O’Dea, Witwer, V. Burke.
List of Excellence.
[The students mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses, named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.—Director of Studies.]	•
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Reading and Orthography—Messrs. Hagerty, Hess, McDonnell, D. O’Conner, Dillon. Taylor, Witwer, Brady: Grammar—Messrs. Whalen, Brady, Roger, O’Dea, Halligan, Hess, J. Smith: Arithmetic—Messrs. J. Flynn, Taylor, J. Smith, Witwer, Bacon, Roger, Keller, Buchanan; Book-Keeping—Messrs. Ott, O’Dea, Buchanan, Taylor, Dillon; Geography—Messrs. Celia, Ott, W. Henry, Halligan, McDonnell, Hess, Dillon, Hagerty; United States History'—Messrs. Celia, Keller, McDonnell, Dillon, Kelly, Hess, Jeannot, Violette, Warren, Hagerty, Mulkern, Halligan, Murphy, Brewster, Reach: Penmanship—Messrs. J. Eisenhauer, Brice, Fishel. '
For the Dome.
Rt. Rev. Richard Gilmour, Cleveland, Ohio, $100.00
D. H. Baker A- Bro., South Bend, Ind.,	25-00
r	John Singler,	“	“	IC	25.00
	Geo. H. Alward,	“	“	cc ’	25.00
	JdhmHag,	“	“	ic	.	.	25.00
	■ Toepp & Goetz,	“	“	li	25.00
	. Moorhead &-Co.,'Chicago, HI.,		2500
	G. T. Stamm,’ Milwaukee, Wis.,		10.00
Saint JFlavy's Academy.
One Mile TPcst of Notre Dame University.
—The Rt. Rev. Bishop of .Cleveland paid the young ladies the honor of a visit on Wednesday. An address of welcome was read by Miss Clarke, to which the distinguished prelate responded in an eloquent instruction, replete with valuable prac- * tical suggestions.
—A little prize for perfect answers, during the week, in the second Preparatory Grammar Class was offered, and won by Fannie Hibben. Those who drew with her for the prize were the Misses Ellen Kearns, Elizabeth Kirkham, Winifred Mo-shier, Jane McGrath, Helena Spotwood, and Hattie Eldridge.
—On Tuesday, Rt. Rev. Bishop Machebceuf, of Denver, Col., received the respectful greetings of the young ladies. Pupils from his episcopal city, or those whose acquaintance he had formed in his extensive missionary- career, presented the addresses. Miss Belle Gove, of Denver, addressed him in English; Miss Manuelita Chaves, of Belen, New Mexico, in Spanish; and Marion Morgan, of the United States Army, in French. With genial anecdotes he responded and entertained the pupils for over an hour.	.
A Spelling Competition was held on Tuesday, the 24th inst., which proved to be ven- interesting to the invited guests, and exciting to the competitors. That of the Senior classes took place in the Senior study-hall at 5 p. m., that of the Preparatory Classes in the Junior study-hall at 5 p. m., kindly presided by Rev. Fathers' Shortis and Saulnier. Two beautiful white velvet placques, offered as premiums by the Prefect of Studies, and painted in imitation of Kensington work, by the Misses Catharine Campbell and Catharine Lancaster, of the Art Department, were given. Miss Henrietta Keenan, Lindsay, Canada, of the Sec- . ond Senior Class, won the prize in the Senior ’ Hall, amid the enthusiastic applause of her companions. Mary Dillon, of Chenoa, Ill., was the successful competitor among the Preparatories, to the manifest delight of her less fortunate compeers.
Sedes Sapientiae..
The world’s fair portals open wide, The beams of promise glow and glide _ Around our path on every side:
- We see no gloom, we know no fear;
The future, ever bright and clear, -Is cloudless, till it draws more near.
For when life’s present claims submerge The future, when its duties urge Oiir steps, the brilliant paths diverge. Then rise cold mists to spread dismay, • .' ■ And lead our untried steps astray, Along Time’s devious, doubtful way.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Ah, oft! full oft. clouds, black as night. Hide every gleam of guiding light Heaven sends to lead our steps aright: But from on high one star doth shine To pierce the gloom with rays benign. To guide us by a power divine.
’Tis Marv’s smile! From climes above, Her care, serene as soaring dove. Is proof of Heaven’s unchanging love. St. Dionysius, skilled and wise In pagan Greek philosophies, Beheld her once with mortal eyes.
So pure was the celestial grace That veiled her hallowed virgin face, Unflecked by one terrestrial trace. That, had he Christian faith ignored, 'He .would have bowed down and adored The Mother of the Incarnate Word.
Albertus Magnus felt her power, He won from her- the priceless dower • . Of science, in his trial hour:
And St. Aloysius at her hand Secured his heavenly self-command, And right, “ The Student’s Guide” to stand.
So thousands, thousands, day by day, .Learn tender mercy of thy sway, O Sedes Sapienticc !
O Throne of Wisdom, raised on high, . We long to view with filial eye Thy form against the orient sky;
On the Rotunda, heavenward reared. In floods of silvery light ensphered, As thou to St John once appeared! Herejs thy chosen place of rest; Here is the spot thy heart loves best, Of all the fair and fertile West.
O worldly Science, thou hast given No passport on the road to heaven.’ Thy bark all rudderless is driven.	’
Changing as is the changing wind. Thy course must misdirect the mind, And prove the ruin of mankind!
The trifling world of letters, now Reveals the demon at thy prow;
’ Truth knows thee but to disavow.
Hence, faithful hearts, the just, the wise, Love but the science of the skies, For in that lore salvation lies. * Therefore the scholar on her.way Must live to love,: and love to prav u To Sedes Sapiential	-
’ M. C.
The American Princess: Her Dominions and ’	Subjects.
GONE OUT, OF COURSE.
■ “Ou est votre lanterne?” demanded a gendarme of an Englishman, who was,, wandering about after dark in a French town, where every passenger was bound to carry a light. “ 11 est sorti!” was the reply of the intelligent foreigner. —Independent.	*	.
“ We have come to welcome you into our ranks,” they all exclaimed; “you belong to us! O, how we rejoice to obtain such a prize!” said the old Indian Sachem, General Pride, with a grim smile on his cruel-looking face. .
“You mistake; you mistake!” said the princess, retreating, as the ruffians advanced.	'
“ Ha, ha.! It seems to me the mistake is all on your own part,” chuckled Lady False Indcpend-ence, with a malicious gleam from under her heavy, dark eyebrows.- - “ But never mind it all! Let those fantastic people take care of themselves, and as for yourself, you just clasp my left hand tightly with your right hand, and place your other hand with the fullest confidence in that of Lady SelfIndulgence, and we will get away from these fools.” The princess did not observe the sly glance given by Lady False Independence to the Indian Sachem, hut, unsuspecting as she was, she saw no other course to follow but to obey; however, she hesitated.	.
“Now, what do you wait for?” Said Lady Self-Indulgence. “Do you wish to get mixed up with this ridiculous parade? You must do something decisive, or you will be certainly kidnapped by some of those horrible monsters who have determined to get possession of you, in order to swindle you out of your estates. You are not safe here for a moment.”	><
Three dashing young Navy officers rode up on J magnificent Arabian horses. Leaping from their saddles, like the knight errants.Qf old, they put j on the air of champions, and stood at the side of the princess. The first, kneeling and kissing her hand, said: “ We come to defend you; permit us the honor. We perceive your danger and seek for no greater happiness than to fight in your cause.”
“ Did my father send you ? Do you come from the Empire of Truth?” asked the princess.
“ We come, most august princess, with the due authority. Permit me to state that I am known as Commodore Worldly Stratagem, and with young Midshipman Impetuosity arid Lieutenant	i
Foolhardy Fearlessness. I shall deem it a pleasure to extricate you from the difficulties in which your imperial person appears at present to be involved. Here, Lieutenant, I entrust you with this important commission. It is to take the princess under your own especial charge. Favor us with your advice in the present critical moment.”	"
-.“-My advice,” answered the officer with a pomp-, ous air, “shall not be withheld if needed. If the imperial princess will permit me to freely express my opinion, I shall not refuse to do so.” Here he •knelt. “ Fair princess, shall I speak? ”	.
“ If,” said the princess, “ you have been sent by my father, if you desire my best interests, how f can I refuse to listen to you.”	■
“ Oh, thank-you! thank you,generous princess!”	.
said the officer. “ Then let me recommend, as the	Z
result of my most mature deliberations, the wis-	$
I
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
543
dom of confiding your estates—which, no doubt you are aware, fair princess, render you everywhere an object of envy, which are, in fact, the chief source of your danger—the wisdom, I repeat, of confiding your estates to the care of somedZy-interested and responsible party, who will release you from the perilous burden, and make you happy again.” .	. .
(to be continued.) -
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY, CORRECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE. OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—blisses Adderly, Beal, Chirhart, Dillon, Eldridge, Ginz, Harrigan, M. Hawkins, Halter, Johnson, King, Kirkham, Kearns, C. Lancaster, Mohl, Madole, M. Mooney, Maginn, O’Connell, A. Ryan, Sullivan, E. Slattery, Schmidt, Spotwood, Stackcrl, Schaefer, Todd, Taylor, Van Patten. 2d Tablet—Misses Black, C. Babcock,’ M. Clarke, Dunn, Dolan, Feehan, Fendrich,- Gove, Heckard, Hunt, Keenan, Laffer, Munger, Neu, V. Reilly, J. Reilly, Ramsey, Reiser, Schmauss.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Chaves, Dignan, Dillon, Fisk, T. Haney, B. Haney, Johnston, Naylor, Otis, Richmond, ' Spengler, Snowhook, Van Horn. 2d Tablet—Misses Alexander, Best, Brown, Considine, C- Ducey, Ewing, Fehr, Hawkins, Hetz, Hibben, Morgan, Rodgers, Shephard, Schmidt, Wallace.	..
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Par Excellence—Misses Chapin, Campau, Ducey, J. English, Morley, Otis, Prescott, Paul, Schmauss, Sawyer.
Class Honors.	.
'	HONORABLY MENTIONED.
. Graduating Class—Misses Clarke, Dillon, Feehan, Fox, A. Ryan, Wiley, Wright.
ist Senior Class—Misses Fendrich. Donnelly, Sullivan, Johnson, Shickey.
2D Sr. Class—Misses Keenan, Slattery. Ginz, Barlow, Dunn, Halter, Call, Gove, Lancaster, Wallace, J. Reilly, Mohl, Crawford, Leach, Heneberry, V. Reilly, Ramsey.
3d Sr. Class—Misses Morrison, Dignan, M. Ducey, English, O’Connell, Munger, Madole, Heckard, Stackerl, Danforth.
ist Preparatory Class—Misses A. Murphy, Myers, Legnard, Reiser, Considine, Chirhart, M. Dillon, English, King.	'
2D Prep. Class—Misses Kirkham, Kearns,. Eldridge, Spot wood, Richmond, Hibben, Fehr, Moshier, Schmidt, - McGrath, Johnson, Mooney, Dolan, Schaefer, Rodgers, Fritchman, Lucas, E. Wallace.
Junior Prep. Class—Misses Campau, Mary Otis, Sawyer, Hawkins, Robinson, Alexander.
ist Junior Class—Misses J. English, C. Naylor, A. Schmauss, M. Ducey.
french.	.
ist Class—Misses M. Feehan, C. Lancaster.
2D Div.—Miss J. Reilly.	1 -
2D Class—Misses„.Camp.bell, Barlow, Clarke, Morgan, Leydon. .....	... -	.
3d' Class—Misses Call, C. Donnelly, Lena Wallace, Shickey, Sullivan, Walsh, A. Ryan, ,M. A. Ryan, Taylor. L. English, Malbceuf.
4TH Class—Misses Crawford, Dunn. Mohl, E. Slattery, . Morrison, Adderly, Fenlon.
2D Div.—Misses Hunter, Dignan, O’Connell, Evarts,' Babcock.
5TH Class—Misses A. Duffield, Edith "Wallace, Richmond, Snowhook, Moshier, Chaves, Lucas, Alexander, Brown, Barry, Best.
6th Class—Misses Robinson, Campau, Paul, Chapin, M. Ducey.
St. Mary’s Academy,
CONSERVATORY of music,
■	AND SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING and SCULPTURE.
Conducted by the Sisters of the" Holy Cross.
In the Academy tlw course is thorough in the Preparatory. Academic and Classical grades.
The insdtution possesses a complete set of chemical and philosophical apparatus, choice and extensive herbariums of native and foreign plants, and a library of some thousands of volumes.
No extra charges for Genha’^or French, as these languages enter into the tegular cour>e of academic studies
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
on the plan of the best Musical Conservatories of Europe, is under charge of a complete-.corps of teachers..eleven in number. It comprises a laige .Music Hall, a”d twenty-eight separate rooms for harps, pianos, ami organs. A thorough course for graduation in theory and practice.
Esthetics and Composition —A laree Musical Library in French. German. English, and Italian Semi-monthly lectures in Music. Vocal Culture. Chorus Singing and Haimony.
THE SCHOOL OF
DRAWING, PAINTING AND SCULPTURE
is modelled on the great Art “chcols of Europe,drawing and painting from lite and the antique. A choice Library of the Fine Arts in English, French. German. Italian, and Spanish is connected with the School of Design Graduating pupils who have passed creditably through the Academic or Classical course receive the Graduating Goki Medal of the Department.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the students who have pursued a special course in Conservatory of Music, or ii» the Art Department.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rules of the institution.
Full particulars of three Departments given in Catalogue, tor which address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre DameP. 0., Ina.
How to get a Bicycle Free.
THE WHEELMAN is a handsomely illustrated 80 page magazine of Bicycling and Tricycling literature and news. It offers the following premiums:	.
For 1S0 subscribers we will give a Columbia Tricycle.
For 140 subscribers we will give a Full Nickeled Expert (anysize).	'
For 100 subscribers we will give a Standard Columbia Bicycle (any size).	■
For 80 subscribers we will give a St. Nicholas Bicycle (48 or 50 inch).	.	‘
For 65 subscribers we will give a Mustang Bicycle.
For 60 subscribers we wili give a St. Nicholas Bicycle (44 or 46 inch).	.
For 50 subscribers we wili.give a Western Toy Co. Bicy-. cle (42 inch).	.	- -	.
A cash premium of 50 cents each is allowed where the number of subscribers is too small to obtain a premium, if 18 or more are obtained. Terms, $2.00 per year. Subscriptions should be sent.in as received. All remittances bv draft or P. O. Order. Send 20 cents for sample copy and full particulars, or a 3c stamp for full particulars. ,.
THE WHEELMAN,
602 Washington Street, Boston, Mass, o	*	_	■ -
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Michigan Central Railway
Tillie Table-Nov. 1«. 1S79.
	♦Mail	♦Day Express.	•Kal. Accom.	It Atlantic Express.	tNight Express.
Lv. Chicago - - -“ Mich. City -“ Niles	 “ Kalamazoo -“ Jackson - - - Ar. Detroit - -	7 00 a. m 9 25 “ 10 45 “ 12 33 p. m 3 45 “ 6 48 »	9 00 a.m 11 13 “ 12 15 p.m 1 40 •* 4 05 “ 6 30 “	4 00 p.m 6 35 “ 8 05 “ 9 50 “	5 15 p m. 7 40 “ 9 00 “ 10 28 “ 12 50 a.m 3 35 “	9 10 pm 11 30 *• 12 48 a m 2 28 “ 5 00 “ 8 00 “
	♦Mail	“Day Express.	•Jackson Express.	t Pacific Express	tEven’g Express.
Lv. Detroit - - -“ -Jackson	 “ Kalamazoo-“ Niles	 “ Mich. City- Ar. Chicago - - -	7 CO a. m 10 20 1 15 p.m 3 05 “ 4 30 “ 6 50 “	9 35 a. m 12 15 p. m 2 37 “ 4 07 “ 5 20 “ 7 40 “	5 55 p. m 4 50 a. m 0 50 “ 8 08 “ 10 35 "	950 p m. 12 45 a.m. 2 43 “ 415 '• 5 30 “ 8 00 “	8 10 p.m 1 15 “ 1 38 a.m 3 30 “ 4 55 “ 7 30 “
Niles and South Bend Division.
♦GOING NORTH.
Lv. So. Bend—8 45 a.m. 6 ?0 p.m “ N. Dame—8 52 “ 615 “
Ar. Niles— 9 25 “	7 15 “
*GOING SOUTH.
Lv Niles— 7 05 a.m. 4 15 p.m. “ N. Dame—1 40 “	4 48 “
Ar. So. Bend—7 45 “	4 55 “
♦Sunday excepted. tDaily. tSaturday and Sunday excepted O W. Ruggles,	H: B. Ledyard,
G. P. & T. A.. Chicago, Ill. Gen’l Manager, Detroit. Mieh.
G. L. Elliott. Agent, South Bend, Ind.
EDWARD L. WILSON’S
PERSONALLY PHOTOGRAPHED VIEWS OF
THE ORIENT,
EGYPT, ARABIA am PALESTINE
For the Magic Lantern, For the Craphoscope, For the Stereoscope,
For Archreologists, Architects, Geologists, Bible Students, Antiquarians, Artists, and all lovers of the beautiful.
This Grand Collection is Unique.
Made During the First Half of 1882.
A FULL. CATALOGUE SENT FREE.
Also my own views of Naples, Pompeii, Herculaneum, Rome, Paris, and London.
Stereoscopic Size, -	-	-	-	- $3.00 Per Dozen.
8x10 inches, -	-	-	-	$9.00 Per Dozen.
Careful selections made personallv.	.
. EDWARD L. WILSON,
Publisher of Photographic Books,
912 and 914 CHESTNUT STREET, PHILAD’A.
ar"- in	(Second Floor.) -
FOR TUITION PURPOSES. THE
DENVER
Scientific Museum
CAN FURNISH A FULL LINE OF
Skeletons, Skulls, Skins of Native and Foreign Birds and Animals.
MOUNTED SUBJECTS and ALCOHOL PREPARATIONS ALWAYS ON HAND.
Choice, Well Crystallized Minerals a Specialty.
Taxidermist and Dermoplastic Work
DONE IN A SUPERIOR STYLE.
Orders promptly attended to. The best Preservative’ for Zoological Specimens for sale.
Address
RUDOLPH BORCHERDT, ocl-83	DENVER, COL.
L S. & JI.S. Railway.
On and after Monday, Jan. 1, 1SS3, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.32 a.m., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.50 a.m.; Cleveland, 2.25 p.m.; Buffalo, 8.00 p.m.
11.23 a.m. Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.35 p.m.; Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.55 a.m.
9.10 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.45 a.m.; Cleveland, 7.05 a.m.; Buffalo, 1.10 p.m
12.20 p.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line arrives at Toledo, 5.40 p.m.’ Cleveland, 10.10 p.m.; Buffalo 3-55 a-m-
6.21 p.m. Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo, 10.28 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.35 a.m.; Buffalo, 7.05 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.32 a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 3.25 a.m. Chicago, 5.50 a.m.
5.07 a.m. Pacific Express. Arrives'at Laporte, 5.55 a.m.
Chicago, 8.00 a.m.	-	-
8.05 a.m Accommodation. Arrives at Laporte, 9.07 a.m. Chesterton, 9.57 a.m; Chicago, 11.30 a.m.
1.30 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.30 p.m.; Chesterton, 3.15 p.m.; Chicago, 4.40 p.m.
4-35 P-m- Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22; p.m.; Chicago, 7.40p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Genl. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
A. G. AMSDEN, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
. P. P. WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland. " - ' ' IOHN NEWELL, Gen’l. M’ger, Cleveland.