Disce quasi semper victurus; vive quasi eras moriturus.
Vol. XVII.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, APRIL 26, 1884.
No. 33.
Our Lady of the Rocks *
BY DANTE G. ROSETTI.
Mother, is this the darkness of the end.
The Shadow of Death? and is that outer sea Infinite imminent Eternity?
And does the death-pang by man’s seed sustain’d
In Time’s each instant cause thy face to bend
In silent prayer upon the Son, while He
Blesses the dead with His hand silently
To His long day which hours no more offend?
Mother, of grace, the pass is difficult,
Keen are these rocks, and the bewildered souls
Throng.it like echoes, blindly shuddering through.
Thy Name, O Lord, each spirit’s voice extols. Whose peace abides in the dark, avenue
Amid the bitterness of things occult.
* Written in 1858, on seeing the famous picture by Da Vinci, so-entitled, now preserved in the British National Gallery.
Parliamentary Practice. *
RULES GOVERNING PROCEEDINGS IN DELIBERATIVE ASSEMBLIES.
Special orders are commonly governed by special rules. In general parliamentary practice they have much the same power and effect as the statutes exercise in modifying the principles of the common law. It is the privilege of all deliberative bodies to adopt special rules; and such rules control and modify the regular course of parliamentary procedure. The ordinary practice comes to us from.time immemorial, and has its sanction in well-established custom. The common rules of practice are derived from the. usages of the Houses of Parliament, of the Senate and House of Representatives, of State legislatures, and of other assemblies of standing and influence. The}' prevail without formal adoption in all deliberative bodies, providing they do not come into conflict with special rules adopted by such organizations; for special rules control as effectually as the statutes control com.mon-law precedents. But as the stat-"
* Lecture delivered by Prof. Wm. Hoynes, and continuation of subject treated in No. 26.
utes of each State must be studied by persons who would become familiar with its local laws, so the special rules of each assembly must be considered' apart from a general treatment of parliamentary practice.
The tabling of a question cuts off such subsidiary motions as to commit, to postpone indefinitely, to postpone to a given time, and so on; and, should the question come back on a motion to take it from the table, they are not thereby revived. But a motion to amend either the main question or an amendment to it. adheres to the measure, goes to the table with it, and comes back for consideration and action, without change as to relative standing, and importance. The question, with its adhering amendments, is thereafter treated as though it had never been tabled. The motion to take from the table may be made at any time after the transaction of the business which immediately followed the tabling of the question to which it relates. A question deferred should be called up by the chair, whether there be a motion to that effect or not, when the time to which it was postponed arrives.
A question referred ought to be reported at the time designated, and, if that be impracticable, further indulgence ought to be asked * bv the com-mittee. When the question is returned to the assembly, the report of the committee should accompany it. If objection be made when the chairman of the committee proposes to report the measure, a motion to receive it would be in order, and the sense of the meeting in reference to the matter could be ascertained by vote.- The assembly becomes possessed bf the report by suffering it to be read, and consequently it would afterward be out of place either to object to receiving it or to make a motion to receive it. Recommendations reported with the resolution cannot be adopted unless moved as amendatorv to it. But it is allowable to move that the report be accepted; and a provision for the discharge of the committee mav or mav not be added; or, should the report still seem defective, a motion to recommit may be offered. Where a committee fulfills the duty for which it was specially chosen, as in performing some particular act and making report upon the same; it is in order to move that such report be approved. If a resolution defective in form or expression be referred for the purpose of having it reported in better shape, the committee may return a resolution embodying its substance, and this may be adopted,
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
amended, rejected, or otherwise dealt with, according to the pleasure of the assembly.' Anything and everything a committee reports for action by the assembly may be amended as freely as though introduced by an individual member; but a statement of facts prepared and reported by the committee is not amendable. It would be unfair to make that body say something different from what is put forward as its statement in a matter.
Nominations are ranked as suggestions rather than regular motions. They need not be seconded. When it is stated that nominations to fill an office are in order, each member has the right to name one candidate. Until all have had opportunity to exercise that right, an incidental motion declaring nominations closed, would not be in order. But a motion to appoint an officer is not governed by the usages controlling nominations. It comes within the operation of the rules governing ordinary motions, and it must be seconded and otherwise treated as they are;
The term skeleton resolution signifies a form that is to be completed by the assembly. It is an unfinished proposition, containing one or more blanks purposely left by the member who offered it. For exanfple, “Resolved, That -------- dollars
be appropriated for the payment of rent,” etc. The names or sums deemed appropriate to fill the blanks are stated by way of nomination. Voting is not in order until the necessary names or sums to fill the blanks have been suggested. As in the o o
case of nominations to office, they need not be seconded. Should a skeleton resolution read “Resolved, That------dollars be appropriated for the purchase of a library,” one member may name $1,000; another, $500; another, $300, and so on. In such case the vote is first taken upon the greatest number. This order is observed, not because the greatest number is first suggested, but because it is least likely to command a majority. If lost, the next higher is put to vote, and so on, until one of the sums named is accepted. But the rule is not arbitrary, and in many cases voting begins in the inverse order, starting with the smallest sum. This order is commonly observed in fixing the amount of a tax, the day of adjournment, and the like. When the blanks have been filled, the skeleton resolution is complete; and it may then be amended, debated and treated as any original resolution.----------•
After a resolution comes into possession of the assembly, the mover cannot withdraw it without permission of the secondei' and general consent of the members. "When a mover asks leave to withdraw the resolution, the chair ordinarily inquires, “Are there any objections?” If none, leave to withdraw is granted. But if objection be made, a motion is necessary. Such motion belongs to the incidental class. It should be brought to an immediate vote. If adopted, the resolution, with all its adhering amendments and motions, would be removed from further consideration. Incidental motions are subsidiary, and consequent!)7 supersede other motions in the order of voting.. As a rule, they are not debatable. .	.
A resolution, may be divided whenever it is susceptible of being separated into parts. Any member may call for'its division into two or more propositions, and afterward each of such propositions may be voted upon alone. The division may be made whenever each proposition is complete in itself, and it seems likely that certain members wish to vote for one and against the other. In some instances a resolution maj7 be long and complicated, and yet preserve unity and be indivisible; while in other cases it may be comparatively brief, and yet contain more than one distinct proposition.' For example, “ Resolved, That the sessions of the Con-, vention be held daily for a week in the Exposition. Building at Chicago.” In that resolution there-are several propositions, and they may be. divided; into as many different parts and put separately to. vote. It is sometimes opposed to sound policy to. ■ divide a resolution, as business may be facilitated; by keeping it entire. But if a division be ordered'., each proposition must be dealt with in. its order., Should a motion be to the effect “ that the con-, vention do now adjourn to meet next Thursday-evening,” it would be susceptible of division. In such case the appointment of the time for the next meeting mu&t be put first, inasmuch as a prior adoption of the first half would summarily preclude action upon the second. Where there are two contradictory propositions in a resolution, or two resolutions antagonistic to each other in a series, the chair should rule the motion to adopt out of order, holding that the propositions or resolutions negative each other and are a blank. But a resolution embracing many independent propositions is not to be ruled out of ordei' by the chair on the ground of multifariousness, for it is. often convenient and accelerative of business to. have many matters thus united. The motion to. divide belongs to the incidental class. It is not amendable or debatable. A motion to strike out. a part of a resolution, and insert other matter in. its place, is not susceptible of division.
Papers that come before a deliberative body for-action may, as a matter of right, be read once at.' the request of any member, and no motion to that: effect is necessary. But when it is desired to readi other papers and documents the consent of the assembly must be obtained.. As a rule, the chair inquires whether there is any objection, and, if there be no response, the reading may proceed. Should there be objection, a motion would be necessary. Such motion, being incidental to the main question, must be put before it, and is not the subject of amendment or debate. In legislative bodies it is not unusual to refer communications, petitions, messages, official reports, etc., to the appropriate committees without previous reading. This is done to save time. It is supposed that too great a portion of the session would be unnecessarily . consumed, were they to be read originally before all the members. Very frequently they return in another form, bring reported by bill or otherwise.’ They are then read. Before the final vote is taken they must-be thrice read, though not necessarily in full. Papers referred to committees are sometimes^
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
515
suppressed on account of essential defects in substance and form, and are not returned to the assembly for action.
Such matters are usually governed by special rules—and such rules must be strictly followed. Without provision for their suspension in the rules themselves, they cannot be suspended, no matter how many of the members are in favor of temporarily relaxing or avoiding their operation. Under such circumstances, the}- are comparatively as inflexible as a constitution; and by them the rights of minorities are effectually protected. While a special rule cannot be suspended by the vote of a majority, no matter how great, it may, however, be repealed. While in being it must be obeyed, though it may be put out of existence altogether if the majority so decree. Rules based upon a constitutional requirement or statute cannot be suspended, and the inhibition extends also to such rules as are based upon established parliamentary-principles. A motion to suspend a rule should state the purpose which it is sought thereby' to accomplish. It is ordinarily not debatable. Provision to suspend it*must exist in the special rules themselves.	-
Questions of order and appeals, give rise to the largest class of incidental motions. They take precedence of pending propositions to which they relate arid must first be decided. If appeals be taken from decisions rendered upon questions of order, they must be dealt with before the matters to which they pertain. It is the duty of the presiding officer to preserve order with reference both to decorum and the rules of procedure. A person called to order should at once take his seat, though either the chair or the assembly may permit him to explain, and, if necessary, an incidental motion to that effect may be passed. When called to order for words spoken, he may' appeal from the decision of the chair; and, if the appeal be sustained, he may resume his remarks. If one member call another to order for. words spoken in debate, he should repeat the objectionable language, in order that it may be taken down; and he may then state the point of order which he wishes to make. Objection should be made before other business intervenes. The President may decide the point of order at once; or, should he desire further information, he may' indulge debate upon the point in issue. It is not the right of members to be heard upon this topic, and consequently the presiding officer may' close the debate and render his decision at any' time. He need not give reasons for the decision, unless he thinks it politic to state them. It would not be proper for him to give an opinion upon a matter of order, in answer to a question by a member, before a point of order had been regularly' raised. Appeals taken from his decision must be seconded. The appellant may' state the grounds of his appeal, and the President may' give the reasons that actuated him so to decide. When he puts the question it is usually' couched in this or similar language: “Shall the decision of the chair be sustained?” Generally speaking, appeals are debatable; but there
are many exceptions to the rule. The appellant is usually' allowed to open and close the debate. It may' be terminated by an incidental motion. Debate is not in order upon an appeal that certain words have transgressed the rules of speaking. Should a point of order be raised, decided and appealed after the previous question has been moved, or the main question ordered, there can be no debate, should a point of order be raised incidentally when an undebatable question is pending, it is not proper to discuss it either before the ruling of a chair is announced or an appeal after its announcement. Nor can an appeal be debated pending a motion to table it.' Should this motion be carried, its effect would be to ratify the decision of the chair. A tie vote, however, would overrule such decision. Once an appeal has been decided it cannot be renewed.
It may' be stated as a rule, subject to numerous exceptions, that all questions are debatable. The exceptions are based upon the rule that some matters require immediate action; and, were debate in order, it would be out of the question to count upon dispatch in disposing of them. Undebatable questions are those upon adjournment, fixing, the time of the next meeting (when the question thereon is privileged), laying on the table, taking from the table, ordering the main question, reconsidering an undebatable question, withdrawing a motion, suspending a rule, taking up the order of the day, fixing priority' of business, limiting or closing debate, points of order arising upon undebatable questions, etc.	.
As a rule, there must be a motion before the house, duly- seconded' and stated, before it can be made the subject of commendation or discussion. And yet, by' sufferance or permission, any person may address the meeting on subjects germane to its business and consonant with its nature. This may' be done even when there is no question pending. Furthermore, it is not uncommon for a member who has notified the house that he intends to introduce a resolution at a given tiihe, to rise at> that time and make a preliminary speech; and, in , some instances, he is permitted, even in the absence of previous notice, to rise in his place, stating that his purpose is to make a motion, and then deliver a brief speech by way of introducing it. Under certain circumstances, too, the seconder may give his reasons for favoring the resolution or order. But such privileges are due to the indulgence of the assembly, and cannot be claimed as rights. Should the mover or seconder attempt to speak upon a proposed or merely anticipated motion, permission to do so not having been directly' or impliedly' accorded, he would be liable to be called to order. There is really' nothing before the house —nothing which may' serve as the subject of a speech—until the question has been stated. • Then the mover and seconder have equal rights with the other members to speak upon the measure and advocate it.
The chairman of a committee makes the report for the body he represents, but it must be stated by the presiding officer of the assembly before he
THE NOTRE DANE SCHOLASTIC
can speak upon it or any question to which it gives rise. However, a verbal report which comprises the reasons upon which the conclusions of the committee are founded, cannot be regarded as in the nature of a debate. It is certainly not governed by the rules of discussion. If there be a minority report, one of the signers should be allowed, by courtesy, to follow the chairman of the committee in- presenting it to the assembly and stating the conclusions reached by himself and his associates.
(to be continued.)
Burns, Moore, and. Shelley, as Lyric Poets.
“All true literature, all genuine poetry,” says Sainte Beuve, “ is the direct outcome, the condensed essence of actual life and thought. Lyric poetry,” he adds, “for the most part is (especially that of the three poets whose names appear at the head of this paper was) the vivid expression of personal experienced It is only as poetry is founded on reality that it has any solid value; otherwise it is worthless.
Thomas Moore’s “ Melodies,” or lyrics, are, in the truest and widest acceptation of the word, the vivid expression of personal experienced It might be said in his case that Facit slice palricc indig-natio versum. His lyrical effusions have an interest of a double order: First, they have a personal interest as the poems of Moore; because they indicate the original destination of his intellect, and the strength of his native vocation to a class of poetry—viz., lyrical, in deeper keys of passion than any other which he systematically cultivated. For themselves, also, and abstracting from their connection with Moore’s natural destination, these ■ lyrics have a second interest,—an intrinsic interest that will always make them dear to every truehearted Irishman—that they were written at a period of Ireland’s history “ when it was treason to love her and death to defend.” It has become quite a common thing with Anglo-Irish critics, both at home and abroad, to class Moore as an inferior poet. And why? Because, whether through ignorance or through malice on their part, they have failed to make themselves familiar with the department of poetry which he cultivated, and the merit of his culture, in that department. But in his own department, whether higher or lower, that man is, supreme who has not yet been surpassed,—and such a man is Thomas Moore! ’ But, how about Robert Burns and Percy P. Shelley, it may be asked, did not they surpass him ? I emphatically answer, No! And why not? Because (i) Moore imparted—if I may so speak— bowels of feeling, which they did not, to quote Joubert’s expression, to the words he used, and poured into them such a charm that every word has a thought corresponding to it, so that not by so much as one solitary counter can the words out-run the thoughts; so that the thought or thoughts, by which, he tries to convey his meaning, are never marred, through Avant of simplicity, by that rhe
torical condensation, which we find in the other two lyric poets, Burns and Shelley,—more especially the latter. (2) In the art of wedding words to music no lyrical poet, ancient or modern, Pindar or Shakespeare not even excepted, has surpassed him.
In what, then, does Burns surpass Moore as a Ivrist? In this wise (1), in a greater truthfulness to the great facts of life, and (2) in a more perfect naturalness,—that is to say, his lyrics or songs have the appearance of coming more from nature than from art. In this latter gift of spontaneity, Burns was even beyond .Shakespeare. The real Burns is, of course, in his Scotch poems, like the real Moore is in his “ Melodies.”
Truly has Matthew Arnold said, “ We arrive best at the real estimate of Burns, I think, by conceiving his work as having truth of matter and truth of manner, but not the accent or the poetic virtue of the highest masters.”—Like Robert Herrick, Moore or Shelley, he might have safely added.
And how about Shelley? In what does his strength as a lyrist lie? Probably imthe rare exquisiteness of the workmanship of his lyrics; but in them, as in those of Moore, “ the imagery for all its splendor,” as a late critic has well said, “ is too ornate, too redundant, too much overlays the thought which has not strength enough to, uphold such a weight of ornament.” Then, as to the music of the words, wonderful as it is, the sound, at times, runs away with the sense, as in the lyrics of Beranger; condensation and self-repression would have improved much that he wrote. So much, then, for the lyrical merits and demerits of the three poets that I have essayed to criticize in this paper.	H. J. Lloyd.
The Existence of God.*
Agnosticism or Scepticism is becoming daily more prevalent, its proselytes are filling up our cities; its advocates now proclaim its flimsy doctrines boldly and fearlessly; and if they do not openly deny that there is a God, they doubt His existence, and claim that they are able to know with certainty absolutely nothing concerning the idea of an infinite Being. It is on this account, therefore, that we feel the necessity of instructing ourselves thoroughly in Theodicy, and strengthening our fortifications against the powerful elements of scepticism and atheismi; and hence the opportuneness and utility of our thesis. We will endeavor to prove, briefly and clearly, and by the light of reason alone, the absolutely necessary existence of a real and Supreme Being whom we call God.
The proofs of the existence of God are usually referred to three different orders—viz., the moral order, the physical order, and the metaphysical order.. All of the arguments are a posteriori, for God being the first cause, it is evident that wecan-
* Thesis defended at the “ Academy Circle,” April 17th, by Elmer A. Otis,’84.	~
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5J7
not demonstrate His existence a priori, or we cannot reason from cause to effect; besides they may be .reduced to one grand argument, for they are all based on the same foundation,—viz., the selfevident principle of casuality, and an undeniable fact of experience. We will confine ourselves this evening to a few of the most forcible arguments, dwelling particularly on the moral and physical proofs.
ist. The unanimous consent of nations. What has been universally believed in all times and places, in points on which, by the simple light of natural reason common to all men, every man is a competent judge, must be considered as a certain truth. Now, such is the belief in the existence of God. Therefore God exists. When we say that man has always and everywhere believed in the existence of God, we do not mean thereby that *0.11 men have had a perfectly exact idea of God,— ■an idea without any mixture of error, but simply ■ ^that man has constantly believed in something worthy.of his worship, superior both to himself •and the visible world. Moreover, by unanimous 'belief we do not intend to say that there has been Jug individual unbeliever, but that every nation, savage as well as civilized, has alwax-s admitted and worshipped a Supreme Being. It is evident that the consent of nations, to be a proof of truth, must be in some degree unanimous: otherwise it would not be a real consent, and could not be considered as the voice of nature. But it need not be absolutely unanimous; for, some exceptions in the intellectual and moral order no more destroy the universality of human consent than monsters, for instance, in the physical order destroy the universality of the human form. But this constant and unanimous belief in the existence of a Supreme Being has been so clearly shown, and is so well known, that it needs no further defence on our part. .
2d. The contingency of the world. Whatever ns contingent presupposes a necessary being; now •contingent beings exist in the world: there-Tore a necessary being exists. That I exist is an undeniable fact; but what caused or who gave me my existence? There are but two hypothesis possible to answer this question: either I myself am the cause of my own existence, i. e., I exist necessarily and am not contingent, or some other being gave me existence. The first hypothesis is absurd, —for, tell a child that nomne made him, but that he made himself, and he will laugh at you. The second hypothesis must then be true; but if it is so, who is this Being- that gave me existence? Did •my parents give it to me? We answer yes, but ;then the question arises, who gave my parents .their existence? If we sav that they received it .from their parents, we are. no nearer a solution of -.the difficulty; for my parents’ ancestors must likewise owe their existence to some preceding beings, ;and so we might continue ad infinitum, unless we -suppose a first Being that owes its existence to no .other. Hence we must necessarily admit either a first cause of our existence, or an infinite series of .secondary causes without any first cause. Now
the latter hypothesis is repugnant, for it would be as absurd as to claim that “a chain with an infinite series of links could hang, without any support, from heaven to earth.” Therefore we must admit a first cause existing by and through itself, and this cause is God.
3d. The necessity of a prime mover. Every " movement presupposes a first mover that is im- • movable. But matter is really in motion; hence there must exist a first immovable mover—which is God. This proof, which was advanced by St. Thomas and strongly defended by him, is one of the most forcible arguments in favor of the existence of God that can be given. Motion exists everywhere in the universe, and there must necessarily be a cause therefor. Now, either this cause is essential to, and inherent in, matter, or it resides in a being essentially distinct from matter. But the first supposition is untenable; because if movement were essential to matter, we could not conceive it as deprived thereof; but it is a fact attested by science that inertness or absolute indifference to motion or rest, is an essential property of matter. In the second hypothesis the mover, which is essentially distinct from matter, must have in and by itself the very principle of movement which is communicated to other beings. It must also be immovable, in the sense that it is moved by no other, or it would have received its motion from another being, and this second being have received its motion from a third, and so on, again ad infinitum. Now, it was proved before that such an indefinite succession is both inconceivable and repugnant to common sense; therefore, as movement actually exists in the universe, it follows necessarily that there exists a first immovable mover, the primary cause of this universal motion, and this prime mover is God.
Laplace, a French scientist, founding his argumentation on a law advanced by Newton, has urged a very subtle objection to this proof. He claims that “there is in the world a force of attraction, varying directly as the mass and inversely as the square of the distance, which is inherent in, and essential to, matter, and which force suffices to explain .all movements in the world; hence there is no necessity of a prime mover.” In refuting this objection and remembering that the law advanced by Newton is indeed only a theory, we answer, ist, That if two spheres be separately taken, they cannot, bv their own forces, be put into motion, according to the principles of mechanics; and therefore, that movement is essentially inherent in neither. 2d, If they are actually moved, it is only by virtue of a general law which is anterior, and superior to them. 3d, If attraction were essentially inherent in matter, how and why is its intensity to be indefinite!}' diminished, as the distance between bodies diminishes, so that it tends to reach zero?’ Finally, this attraction could, in no way, explain all the movements in the world. Hence, we come to the same conclusion as before—viz., that there must be a prime Mover whom we call God.
4th. The order that reigns in - the . world.
5i8	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
This argument is not only one of the oldest and most beautiful proofs of the existence of God, but it is also the most popular, and the most widely accepted. Many eminent astronomers of every age have shown clearly and conclusively that the wonderful harmony and regularity existing in the countless myriads of heavenly bodies points indubitably to the hand of a superior Being. Thousands of years ago David sung in his inspired writings that The heavens show forth the glory of God. and the -firmament declareth the work of His hands. Newton, one of the greatest mathematicians of the last century, says: “This most beautifully arranged system of the sun, planets, and comets could originate only in the wisdom of an intelligent and mightv Being.” Even Laplace himself could not help recognizing this, and avowed it frequently. If we pass to the consideration of organized beings, who could fail to see the perfect unity in the innumerable varieties of living beings? And what wisdom, what forethought could establish and maintain equilibrium in the multiplicity of organs found in man, the masterpiece of creation? Indeed, everywhere we see the evidence of an object in view, and a choice of means to bring about this object. But that admirable order reigns throughout the world, and that this undeniably proves the existence of a supreme Being is so well known that it needs no further substantiation on our part.
Time prevents us from giving a full development to the metaphysical proofs of the existence of God; but, though these arguments are very abstract and do not appear to be so popular as the preceding ones, yet it is our firm conviction that they are the best and most conclusive of all. However, let it suffice to sum them in the following syllogism:	-
Every effect must have a cause sufficiently powerful to account for its production; now, every man invincibly feels within himself the idea of the infinite, the idea of perfection, the idea of moral duty, the idea of a life eternal; therefore, there must of necessity exist a Being that produced these wonderful effects,—a Being that is fully able to satisfy the yearning man feels, in spite of himself, for the infinite, perfect, good and eternal. This substantial Being we call God, and we conclude that He must exist, of else human nature, in its noblest and grandest feelings, is but a lie or-a dream. In conclusion, we think we cannot do better than quote the following forcible passage taken from the works of Sir Francis Bacon:
“ I had rather believe all the fables in the Legend, and the Talmud, and the Koran, than that this universal frame is without a mind. . . . The Scripture saith, ‘ The fool hath said in his heart, there is no God;’ it is not said, ‘The fool hath thought in his heart;’ so as he rather saith it by rote to himself, as that he -would have, than that he can thor-roughly believe it or be persuaded of it For none deny there is a God, but those for whom it maketh that there were no God. But the great atheists, indeed, are hypocrites, which are ever handling-holy things, but without feeling. They that.deny a God destroy man’s nobility: for certainly man is of kin to the beasts by his body: and if he be not akin to God by his spirit, he is a base and ignoble creature.”	.
Scientific Notes.
—Herr Krupp, the great gunmaker, is constructing a gigantic steam-hammer, which is to cost two million five hundred thousand dollars.
—Calomel, Dr. E. Drechsel notes, readily dissolves in a solution of mercuric nitrate at a gentle heat, with formation of mercuiic chloride and mercurous nitrate. Mercuric chloride is precipitated, however, by mercurous nitrate, except an excess of mercuric nitrate is likewise present.
—At a meeting of the Academy of Science, held recently in St. Louis, there was exhibited a specimen of natural coke taken from a mine of lignitic coal in Utah. The coke had been made, it was stated, by volcanic action, two volumes of volcanic rock having passed directly through the mine.
—By experiments upon the absorption of radiant heat by gases, E. Lechler finds that a layer • of carbonic acid 917 millimetres thick absorbs 90 per cent, of the luminous radiation. The carbonic acid of our atmosphere is, therefore, sufficient fully to account for the atmospheric absorption of the sun’s rays. •	.
—The schistosteQa osmundacua is a small moss, growing in caves in the Pyrenees Alps. In the feeble light of these dark caverns, this humble plant shines with a greenish tint, aptly compared to the sparkling of the emerald. This phenomenon is due to the reflection of light from the delicate cells filled with chlorophyl.
—In the Gazette Chemica Italiano D. Vitali says the reaction discovered by Scboenbein in researches on blood-stains is preferable to any other. A blue coloration is produced by a mixture of oil of turpentine and alcoholic tincture of the resin of guiacum on the addition of a little blood or a very dilute solution of hoemoglobin. But all substances capable of acting as direct or indirect oxidizing agents are capable of producing the same reaction.
—The Ascle-piadz speaking of felicity as a physiological quality, observes:
“ The centre of the emotion of felicity is not in the brain. The centre is in the vital nervous system, in the great ganglia of the sympathetic, lying not in the cerebro-spinal cavities, but in the cavities of the body itself near the stomach and in the heart. . . . No man ever felt happy in the head. Every man who has felt misery knows that it springs from the body, speaks of it as an exhaustion, a sinking there . . . He is failing at.the centre of life.”
• More properly expressed—“ the heart is the seat of the will.”
—Bismark has administered a characteristic snub to the Scientific Society of Berlin, which, on his recent sixty ninth birthday, offered him honorary membership, a‘distinction not declined by the great Von Moltke. Bismark, like Wagner, Liszt, and a few other eminent Germans, disapproves, it appears, of vivisection. “ Nothing on earth,” he replied, on receiving the Scientific Society’s invitation, “ would induce me to become in any way whatever the colleague of Virchow or of Mommsen. I am a Doctor of Law of Gottingen, and an honorary citizen of Berlin—I am satisfied.”	•	.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
5*9
—Milne-Edwards, the naturalist, is giving in Paris an interesting exhibition of submarine plants and animals found during his exploration of the Mediterranean. He took soundings to the depth of 19,685 feet, and brought up some of the most ^remarkable organisms ever seen. They are said 'to have puzzled the most accomplished naturalists, •some of them being of such a nature as to make it 'difficult to classify them either as belonging to a ffiotanical or zoological species. The dredgings 'were on a large scale, samples of rock weighing •over 200 pounds being sometimes brought up.
—Dr. S. A. Brown, U. S. N., states that he has -found a specific for the troublesome eruption pro-•duced by the poison oak, or poison ivy, so common in our woods and along old fences. This specific ■'he finds in bromine, which he has used with un-c "varying success in at least forty cases. He uses "the drug dissolved in oil, cosmotine, or glycerine '■■in the strength of from ten to twenty drops of ^bromine to the ounce of oil, and rubs the mixture on the affected parts three or four times a day. The bromine is so volatile that the solution should be renewed every twenty-four hours. The eruption never extends after the first thorough application, and it promptly disappears within twenty-four hours if the application is persisted in.
College Gossip.
Sv"	—The Rcdemptorist College at Hull, Quebec,
has been sold to the School Commissioners for $12,000 cash.
—There are 10,000 students and 500 Professors in the Catholic Colleges of the United States.— Montreal True Witness. '
—A site for the proposed Catholic High School |	iin Philadelphia has been purchased for $74,000.
I	—The Connecticut Catholic.
—It is reported that the Jesuit Fathers intend to I	•start in the West a Novitiate and a Scholasticate
j	for the training of their teachers.
I X.	—We regret to learn that the great orator, FaI	ther Magevny, President of the Catholic College
1	at Columbus, is suffering from a severe attack of
,	rheumatism.	'
I	—The following advertisement appeared in a
German university town paper: For Rent—Fine ]! r room, good distance from the university and close j |	to a pawn. shop.—Herald- Crimson.
;	—Bishop Marty has commenced a school and
I	colle'ge ;n Dakota for the education of the Indians,
a	Tb4S is the first college west of the Mississippi for
{_ne exclusive use of the aborigines.
—The only Catholic .Normal School in the • United States for the training of lay teachers is conducted at Baltimore, Md., by the Sisters of the Holjr Cross, whose Mother-House is located at St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind.
' —Villa Angela College, near Cleveland, con-,ducted bji the Ursuline Nuns, has a large attend-:ance of pupils this year. We lately had the pleas-,j.ire of.seeing some fine specimens of etched glass from the Art Department of this Convent,
—At St. Joseph’s Manual Labor 'School, Notre Dame, Ind., the apprentices are taught by Brothers of the Holy Cross, shoe-making, tailoring, blacksmithing, cabinet-making, bricklaying, plumbing, painting, type-setting, engineering and farming.
—Two Christian Brothers have come to this country in the interests of the great Industrial School of Artam, near Dublin, Ireland, which has an attendance of 700 pupils; and of the Deaf and Dumb Institution of Cabra, near Dublin, which has an attendance of 400 mutes.
—The watch lately raffled at St. Vincent’s College, for the benefit of the library, was won by B. Nangel, of St. Louis. The raffle netted the Library Association $79.50. Much-needed furniture will be purchased for the reading-room; sixty volumes will be bound and new books bought.
—Prizes of S2C0 have been offered by H. H. Warner, of Rochester. N. Y., for each and every comet discovered in the United States and Canada.
This may be a good opportunity for impecunious students, therefore we give it publicity. If the comets should only turn up in sufficient number the business would prove more profitable, and cel'tainly much pleasanter than canvassing for books. •	.
—It is understood that Minister Astor, who succeeded in saving the American College at Rome from “ conversion ” has been instructed to use his good offices to save the Propaganda. In 1S48, in similar circumstances, Secretary of State Lewis Cass interposed to prevent the confiscation of the entire property of the Propaganda College. The result was that the Italian Government abandoned the project of “converting” the property.— The Catholic Herald.	. -
. —The commune of Giez, near Faverges, in the Department of Haute-Savoie, has had the distinction of inaugurating a novel kind of strike. The strikers were the little girls of the communal school, and the motive of these staunch little souls .was their refusal to read any more from the Bert and Com pay re secularist manuals. When the local inspector of primarv education arrived; he found the class consisted of—the teacher, and—her daughter. The plucky little standers-out have declined to be intimidated or cajoled by threats or by promises ; “ and the authorities,” adds the French paper which chronicles the fact, “ have found themselves as powerless in regard to these, little girls as with the Anzin miners.”—London Tablet.	_ .
SCENE IN SOCIAL SCIENCE ROOM.
—Professor : “ Gentlemen will please close their books.”
After the lapse of a few moments, observing that his polite command has not been obeyed by certain Juniors on the back row, he adds:
“ Those who are not gentlemen will please close their books.”	.
The Juniors aforesaid are placed in a very embarrassing position, the awkwardness of which is not lessened by the audible approval of the rest of the class, and the triumphant .smile, of the Professor.—Ex.	■
520	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
MW semisnc.
Notre Dame. April 26, 1884.
The attention of the Alumni of the University of Notre Dame and others, is called to the fact that the NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC has now entered upon the Seventeenth year of its existence, and presents itself anew as a candidate for the favor and support of the many old friends that have heretofore lent it a helping hand.
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Contains:
choice Poetry, Essays, and the current Art, Musical, Literary and Scientific Gossip of the day.
Editorials on questions of the day, as well as on subjects connected with the University of Notre Dame.
Personal gossip concerning the whereabouts and the success of former students.
All the weekly local news of the University, including the -names of those who have distinguished themselves during the week by their excellence in class, and by their general good conduct.
Students should take it; parents should take it; and, above all,
Old Students should take it.
Terms, Si.50 per Annum. Postpaid.
Address EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
—Among the periodicals published in the United States there are two especially which we commend to our readers: the American Catholic Quarterly Review. and the Catholic World. The former of these well supplies the place .of the well-known Brownson's Review whose reputation was so well established and widely spread’by its lamented and distinguished author. The American Quarterly presents articles upon subjects of Philosophy, Religion, History and Politics, upon all the grave questions which agitate the minds of men—all of which show marks of deep thought and earnest study. They aie the productions of scholars, and furnish interesting and instructive reading. The Catholic World is considered, even by non-Catho-lics, to be the best monthly magazine published in the United States. Each successive number gives a series of articles on the questions of the day, philosophical, historical and religious. Tales and romances are also given which fully satisfy a taste for light literature or furnish a relaxation from deeper study. But these, we need not say, are not romances of unreal life, asking our sympathies for characters whose whole lives are portrayed as spent in sin and crime: their moral is pure, and they exercise no baneful effect upon the mind and imagination of the reader.
Both these periodicals well deserve the support of all, and we hope to see them read by the students much more than they are.
—It will be needless to inform most of our readers that beautiful May, the fairest of the months of Spring, the month of sunshine and of flowers, is dedicated to the fairest of creatures,—the Virgin who prophesied that all generation? should call her blessed,—
“Our tainted nature’s solitary boast.”
Every day of the year is sacred to the memory of some saint whose virtues and noble deeds made his life sublime, and who has left foot-prints on the sands of time which the ages cannot obliterate. But to the Queen of all Saints a whole month is dedicated,—a month in which everything recalls the memory of her glorious life and the •perfume of her exalted virtues. As the warm, refreshing sunshine is a sweet assurance that the dreary Winter has passed, that Summer is nigh, so was the biith of the Maid of Galilee a harbinger of the spiritual summer which was to gladden and transform the world, buried in darkness and in sin. The flowers now springing up" under our feet,— the trailing arbutus, so fragrant but so hidden, the violet so delicate in color and in perfume, first fruits of Spring, are emblems of the humility and purity of the one chosen to be the Mother of the world’s Redeemer. The music of birds, just returned from other climes, and of brooks released from icy fetters, is the faint echo in nature which will resound till earth shall pass away, of the songs of choiring angels announcing the birth of the Messiah. Queen of the bright land of promise beyond the grave where flowers always bloom, where music, more exquisite than human heart can conceive, is unceasing, where the sun shall go down no more, we salute thee! Never can we honor sufficiently one whom God Himself has so honored.
There is a reason why the Month of Mary should be observed this year with special fervor. It is the centenary of the first solemn and public celebration of a month of devotion to the Queen of Heaven. And the students of Notre. Dame, where the name of the Mother of Christ has always been held in benediction, should make it an epoch in their lives, a stepping-stone to the plane of loftier thoughts and nobler deeds.
—The Euglossian Association gave their festival performance Thursday evening in honor of the immortal poet of Strafford-on-A von—Shakespeare— before ah appreciative audience. The performance was commenced by an overture, given by the Orchestra, under the leadership of B. Anselm and Prof. Paul. It was rendered with all the skill and taste imaginable. This was next followed by a
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.	521
Chorus, entitled “ Morning in the Country,” by the Orpheonics, which reflected a great deal of credit on the Professor who trained the young men composing the said Society. Then came the chief attraction of the evening—viz., scenes from the chief plays of Shakespeare.
The first play on the programme of the evening was Act I, Richard III. Masters FI. Fo.ote taking the role of King Henry V, and F. Dexter, that of Richard Duke of Gloster. Their rendition of this »Act was certainly one of high character. It was generously applauded throughout. Master J. Ryan Devereux’s recitation of the “Seven Acres”— ■	o
(From “As You Like It”), was warmly applauded by the audience. Mr. J. J. Bannigan’s recital of “ The Last of the Narwhale,” was very good. He possesses a very cleai' and well-modulated voice. Prof. Paul and Master G. Schaefer’s rendering of Mozart’s “Don Giovanni ” was given with striking effect. In the scene from Act II, from “Julius Caesar,” Messrs. J. J. Conway as Cassius, FI. Foote as Brutus, and T. Callaghan as Casca, won hearty applause. Mr. J. Solon’s rendition of Wolsey was good. In the scenes from “ Fleury VIII ” Messrs. A. A. Browne as “Hotspur,” and D. Taylor, as “Falstaff,” excited intense applause. Mr. W. E. Ramsay’s singing of “The Tempest of the Heart,” was very good. Mr. E. A. Otis’ rendition of “The Miser,” was characterized bv true elocutionary power.
The “ Quarrel Scene,” from “ Julius Caesar,” was to have been given by Messrs. Clarke and Tinley, who have already made the scene famous at Notre Dame. The former of these gentlemen being unavoidably absent, Mr. Tinley gave the scene, sustaining both characters and with credit, despite the difficulty of the task. In the “Trial Scene” from the “ Merchant of Venice,” the acting was so smooth and the cast so well balanced, that the applause was directed more to the performance as a whole, than to individual acting in the actors. Special mention must, however, be made of The acting of Mr. D. Saviers, who took the part of “Shylocky It was a very creditable piece of impersonation. Mr. Saviers showed himself a perfect master of facial movement, and well depicted the various emotions of hatred, cruelty, fear, rage and despair that in turn possessed the Jew of Venice. The cast of characters will be found in the programme, which is given in full in our local columns. As a whole, the entertainment was very successful: a result particularly due to the painstaking management of Prof. Joseph A. Lyons, Director of the Association.
After the performance was over, the Rev. President delivered a most neat and well-timed speech, in the course of which he said, that Quintilian, the Aristotle of Roman rhetoricians, in one of his works asks the question: “How will the young man make the best progress in oratory?” In answer thereto, he says: “ The young man can make the best progress in oratory when he is capable of appreciating the writings of Homer.” So in like manner, the student of English literature is capable of making the best progress in elocution when he is capable of admiring Shakespeare, and making every endeavor to thoroughly familiarize himself with his wonderful dramatic effusions, as the students who have taken part in this evening’s performance have done. At its close, the speech was greeted with loud applause.	.
The Academy.
The St. Thomas Aquinas’ Academy, as might be inferred from its name, is a society composed of the students in the Classes of Philosophy. Its members have, from time to time since its organization, prepared public debates not only on the many interesting questions which are, and to the end of man’s existence will be, disputed, but also on those grandest principles which constitute the beauty of Philosophical studies, and which alone can bring man to anything approximating an understanding of himself as he exists, as also of the origin and cause efficient of that existence, and his future destiny;—which bring him, in short, to that highest of all ideas—the idea of God.
On Thursday evening, April 17th, a meeting was held, Rev. Father Fitte presiding. The order of the evening was, as usual, a debate,—or, as it is more technically termed, “a disputation.” The subject was on “ The Existence of God,” and the thesis was well and ably defended by Mr. Elmer A. Otis. The arguments which he advanced are given in full in another part of this paper. When Mr. Otis had concluded his thesis, Messrs. W. Gray and Johnston offered a number of objections, including most of the more popular atheistic and materialistic doctrines of the present and past ages, . the answers to which showed Mr. Otis’s clear conception of the question in all its bearings. Some interesting objections were also presented by Messrs. Mahoney, Steele, Ewing, Bailey and Tinley, which were all satisfactorily responded to. Rev. Fathers O’Brien and Kirsch made some remarks on the thesis, and Rev. Father Fitte- addressed a 'few interesting and instructive words to all the students, after which the Society adjourned. ’
This meeting will long be remembered as one of the most interesting given by the Society, and although it might seem impossible to render such subjects , interesting in debate, nevertheless, if the high praise received by those taking part may be taken as .a proof, it may indeed be said that a dis-
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
icnssien <of Divine things need assume in the minds ■of a cultured audience no second interest to the discussion of human affairs.
Exchanges.
—The Earlhamite for April falls somewhat •below its high standard. The critique on “ Tennyson and His Works” is pitiably incomplete. The exchange department seems to be given up to doo^erel verses and a long advertisement for a new patented type-writer. Next!
—We have been recalled to the fact that life is but a tearful journey to the tomb by reading The College Message for April ti. Mr. M. C. is making his seventh round on “The French Revolution,” and has only gotten to the taking of Bastille—July, 1789! We sincerely hope he has made adequate provisions for his descendants carrying <on the great work after he has had his boat ride with Charon and stands upon the “ further shore.” 'The same issue also contains a “Daisy” effort on *“ Washington,” and some verv well-written exchanges. Call again!
—In The Hesperian Student for March 22d there appears a very sensible and appreciative paper ■on “Dickens.” That’s all! Unless, indeed, you ■count as something the following paragraph from the exchange department:
“ The Notre Dame Scholastic don't seem to admire some poetry that was published in the Student a few weeks ago. This is a frightful state of affairs [sarcastic]. We hired that poem from a tramp do-vn toren especially for the benefit of the ScHolastic, and, after all, it is not appreciated. [Did the same tramp furnish grammar for the . Exchange-editor’s latest?] We weep: our heart is filled with lamentation and woe [highly sarcastic]. We really think of putting ashes on our head, and changing our name to Scholastic [please don’t, or ~ve will have to get a new title]! Such misery has the Indiana Ex.-man caused in our heart”
Nebraska wit!
- —We are glad to see the Vassar Miscellany for April upon our table as we write. “Arthur Per-hyn Stanley’s Place and Work” is a graceful tribute to the gentle Dean who loved so well the Abbey with whom, for this generation at least, his memory- is blended. As to his religious belief— “that simple but all-sufficient faith”—we sometimes doubt if it were more than a mere recognition of the Divinity of Christ. “The Self-Consciousness of American Life” is an essay full of thought and genial humor,—thus:	.
“We spend more money in proportion to our wealth than any other people. In the large cities of America the display of wealth is greater than in any European cities, and, happily, thepoverty does not increase proportionally. Wealth recently acquired is likely to produce vulgar ostentation. Unaccustomed riches are not -worn gracfully bv the many [‘ There need no ghost come from the grave to tell us: that ’]. These facts belong to the crudeness of our country.- The ignorant foreigner, dazzled by the display of wealth,wishes to astonish other people. Walk up Broad7 way any pleasant afternoon, and the American love of display will be apparent American society in its, turns has its little affectations. In certain localities, aping aristocratic England, its boasts of a long line of noble’ancestors, forgetting that only a few centuries [years?] ago its highbred forefathers were perhaps drawing in their seines on
the banks of the Hudson, or sitting with their worthy fraus on the door-stones of their humble dwelling, smoking their short, fat pipes, all-unconscious of any claims to roval descent.”
The remainder of the paper is better than usual. The Exchange-editress affably notices a Latin acrostic in a recent number of the Scholastic. We are enchanted!	.
— To one at all familiar with the conduct of this part of our paper, it goes without saying that the Scholastic is anything but an upholder of the “ Tickle-me-and-I’ll-tickle-you ” plan in college journalism. We never judge the worth of a paper by the good or bad nature of the guileless# youth who may happen to manipulate its exchanges. ‘ On the contrary, we frequently publish appreciative reviews of The' Varsity, Vassar Miscellany, Cornell Era, King's College ■ Record, ^iieefs College Journal,—all papers who make it a point to ignore our own genteel existence. We are therefore convinced that our mild-spoken friend of the last-named paper desired either to talk nonsense or else to misrepresent us—and accomplished both—when he wrote the delightful silliness we quote below:
“The Notre Dame Scholastic has been pleased to bestow upon us [these papers insist upon alluding to us as though we were a Czarowitch, or some other disagreeably dignified dignitary—hem 1 Shakespeare!] several extended and flattering (?) notices. But, like most ladies [wc/] who have condescended to be gracious to the opposite sex [how delightful!], she has suddenly become cool and distant again. Evidently, she does not approve of intimacy. She says:”	.
Here follows a quotation from us, criticising a passage from the Journal, that is very prudently not reproduced.	'
“Like Prince Hal, our tongue is rough and our condition is not smooth, having neither the voice nor the heart of flattery about us, yet if Mademoiselle [how ex quisitely funny!] Scholastic will play the part of the French Princess Kate, and take into favor again ‘a fellow of plain and uncovered constancy’ the Journal will not be slow to play the part of Prince Hal.”	■
Just now, your style for lucidity and unconscious humor seems closlier to resemble “ Dogberry,” the Watchman. . “O that I were writ down an ass!” is a quotation you might have used in days gone by; while now—well, we’re all a good deal alike —so au revoir !
Personal. -
—Thomas Hansard, of ’75, is a leading lawyer in Youngstown, Ohio.
—Mrs. Herman Fendrich, of Evansville, Ind., visited her son at the College during the week.
.	,0-0	□
—Messrs. Georoe and Hugo Hugs, of ’68, are engaged in a successful business in Indianapolis, Ind.
—Mrs. James Ward,—wife of James Ward, Esq., ’69, of Chicago—at present visiting with her two sisters St. Mary’s Academy, attended the Euglos-sian Entertainment .on Thursday evening, in com.-pany with Miss Angela Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio.
—J.C. Larkin (Law),’83, is coming to the front as a criminal lawyer in Pottsville, Pa. In a case lately reported we learn that by sharp practice he
i
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC. ■	523
succeeded in defeating one of the ablest lawyers of his district. Rumor also has it that John is in danger of being sent to the legislature by the labor- . ing class who look upon him as their champion.
—Mr. James Cunnea, father of James Cunnea, ’69, and Thomas Cunnea, of ’71, died suddenly at his home in Morris, Ill., on Thursday last. The deceased was an old and influential citizen, and an exemplary Christian. The heartfelt sympathy of many friends at Notre Dame is extended to the bereaved family in this their hour of trial.
May he rest in peace!
—John M. Eisenhauer (Com’l), of ’83, is in business at Huntington, Indiana. Compelled to leave College before finishing his studies in order to manage and close an extensive business enterprise thrown unexpectedly into his father’s hands, he did so with satisfaction to all concerned, and has since accepted a partnership in another well-established business in his native town. John promises to become one of the solid businessmen of Huntington. The Scholastic wishes him success.
—Prof. T. E. Howard, ’62, has been nominated for Mayor of the city of South Bend by his democratic fellow-townsmen. The genial and learned professor has, for a number of years past, proved his worth and ability in various civil offices in our neighboring city. We know of no one that has been more popular than he, or who could more acceptably hold the highest office in the city. We . wish him every success, and hope that the people of South Bend, irrespective of party feeling, will testify their appreciation of true worth by giving him their suffrages.	-	.
Local Items.
—Baseball!
—Walk on the paths!
—Don’t kill the birds!
—He looks like a doctor!
—Oh! wise young Judge.
—Sans is French, “ Wad.”
-—Competitions next week.	•	•
—“Waddie” took the bun.
—Is it so nominated in the bend?
—The Western wing riseth rapidly. ‘
—We'long for our “Botanical reports.” '
—“Immense” is the word for Gratiano.
—The genial usher knew his duty and did it well.
—Give us some more of “ The Merchant of Venice.”
—The boat crews were practising all day Thursday.	_	-
—Several improvements have been made in the Juniors’Campus.
—Several new works have lately been added to the Law-Library.	.
—The average weight of the members of the O'	O’
boat crews is 1691^...........
—Mr. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., will take charge of the Junior T. A. U.
—The Northern lights could be dimly seen on the evening of the 24th.
—The eastern-expeditions have been resumed-— and everybody is happy.
—Prof. Paul will produce a grand new Cecilian Mass on Pentecost Sunday.
—The St. Cecilians are holding conversaziones about “ Scott ” and “ Dickens.”
—The Devotions of the Month of May will commence next Wednesday evening.
—Several handsome oil-paintings have been placed in the Seniors’ reading-rooms.
— The Euglossians sustained their reputation in their annual Shakesperian entertainment.
—The Rotunda was beautifully decorated for the entertainment, last Thursday evening.
—We would suggest that those who are “ mon-00
archs of all they stirvcy” send in reports of their expeditions.
—It is rumored that a grand excursion to the Farm will soon be made by the banner boys of the Junior department.
—Last week the reports of the Junior Baseball Clubs were overlooked, or not properly presented, we do not remember which.
— The chorus for four male voices rendered by the Orpheonics at the Shakesperian entertainment was a most artistic piece of vocalism. •
—Extensive improvements are being made in Washington Hall. The wood-work has been finished, painted, and otherwise decorated.’
—Our reporter of the Entertainment should have placed the Orchestra under the leadership of Prof. Paul, and the Orpheonics under that of B. Anselm.
—Wednesday last was the 5th anniversary of the great fire at Notre Dame. How much has been accomplished in the few short years that have since flown bv!
—On the 17th a very interesting game of baseball was played by the Young Americans and the Mutuals, resulting in a victory for the latter, the score being 21 to 26.
—It is suggested that “ A Society for the Pre-? vention of Cruelty to Birds ” be established. Present indications seem to point to the necessity of such an organization.
—A joke may be tolerated, but for an act of vandalism there can be no excuse. This remark applies to the thoughtless who sometimes cut flowers. Verizim sa/.!	' .
;—The date of the Philopatrians’entertainment has been fixed for May. 3d. Some delay was caused, owing to the preparation of the peculiar but appropriate costumes. .	.
-—The Mendelssohn Quintette Club, of Boston, will give a concert in Washington Hall, on the 15th prox. All the members are distinguished artists, and a rich musical treat may be expected. .
524
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
—The members of the “ Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary ” Society of the Minim department were given a half-holiday on last Tuesday. A special feature of the afternoon’s festivities was the banquet tendered them by the Rev. President, and which, needless to say, was heartily enjoyed. Sports of all kinds, for which prizes were offered bv their Director, filled up the remainder of the happy day.
—The Junior Mutual Baseball Club defeated the Senior reserved nine on the latter’s grounds, on last Thursday; score, 13 to 20. The Mutuals won the game through superior batting and baserunning. McGill pitched for the Mutuals, and the “reserves” only succeeded in making six safe hits off his delivery. Pohl, Nester, and Mathers, of the Senior Club, led at the bat, while little Pablo did effective work on first. The game was noted for the good feeling that existed among the players from the beginning to the close. No kicking or disputing the decisions of the umpire.
—The crews practising for the June race are as follows:
MINNEHAHA.	EVANGELINE.	SANTA MARIA.
Snouffer, Stroke; McKinnery, 5th; Bannigan, 4th; Mathers, 3d; Steis, 2d: Goulding, Bow;	Guthrie, Stroke; C. Murdock, 5th: Rudge, 4th; Lasley, 3d Saviers, 2d:	! Hyde, Bow;	Scholfield, Stroke: Solon, 5th; O’Dea, 4th; Cai], 3d; Kauffmann, 2d; Murdock, Bow:
—----------1 ( ' s .’
Tinley,Coxswain.:Otis, Coxswain. .Gallagher,Coxswain
The captains of the different crews are: Messrs. Steis, C- Murdock and Scholfield.
—Through the generosity of Signor Gregori the following valuable drawings by some of the old masters have been added to Professor Edwards’s art collection: A sketch by Rubens (born 1577, died 1640) representing St. Agnes with two angels holding a wreath above her head; an allegorical drawing by Paul Veronese (died 1588, at the age. of 60) representing June the Sun, Rain etc.; a chiaro oscuro sketch of Juno with attendants, conversing with a Shepherd, by Gio Battista Tiepolo (died 1769, aged 77); a pen and ink illustration from the 3d canto of Dante’s Inferno by the celebrated English sculptor Flagsman. With these sketches, Signor Gregori has given several drawings and studies by himself; one a portrait in oil of the present venerable Archbishop of Baltimore, painted from a sitting given by the prelate in his private library; another, a portrait of the great German artist Overbeck, drawn from a sitting given by the original at Rome, in 1863; a miniature portrait in w.ater-colors of Domenichino, painted from an original likeness at Grota Feratta; a fine pencil drawing of Cardinal. Pole, from the original portrait at Rome; a pencil likeness of Cardinal Barhabo, and crayon sketches of Cleopatra, Tobias, several monks, and the original studies for pictures painted: in Bologna, Rome, and- the Cathedral of • Baltimore and the proCathedral of Detroit.
— Books ■ lately added to the -Library: Life of Antonio Rosmini Serbati, by Gabriel Stuart Mac-
waiter, Vol. I; The Origin of Ideas, by Antonio Rosmini Serbati, translated from the fifth Italian Edition of the Nuovo Saggio sull’Origine delle Idee, Vol. II; Rosmini’s Philosophical System, translated with a sketch of the Author’s Life, Bibliography, Introduction, and Notes by Thomas Davidson; The History of England, from the First Invasion by the Romans to the Accession of William and Mary in 1688, by John Lingard, D. D.; New Library Edition, with portraits etched by Damman, London, 1S83, 10 Vols.; Dodd’s Church History of England, from 1500 to 1688, chiefly with regard to Catholics, being a complete account of the Divorce, Supremacy, Dissolution of Monasteries, and first attempts for a Reformation under Henry VIII, the unsettled state of the Reformation under Edward VI, the Interruption it met with under Mary, with the last Hand put to it by Elizabeth, together with the various Fortunes of the Catholic Cause during the reigns of James I, Chas. I, Chas. II, and James II, particularly the lives of the eminent Catholics, Cardinals, Bishops, Clergymen and Laymen with an account of the Works of the Learned and the Trials of those who suffered on the Score of Religion, or for Real or Fictitious Plots, etc., with notes, additions and continuation by Rev. M. A. Tierney, F. S. A., 5 Vols.; History of the Catholic Archbishop of Tuam, by Oliver J. Burke, A. B., T. C. D.; The Christian Brothers, their Origin and Work, with a sketch of Ven. de la Salle, by Mrs. R. F. Wilson; The Works of Orestes A. Brownson, collected and arranged by Henry F. Brownson, two copies, Vol. VI.; Leaves from the Annals of the Sisters of Mercy. Vol. I Ireland, Vol. II England and the Colonies; History of the Diocese of Vincennes, by Rev. H. Alerding; Mary Queen of Scots and Her Latest English Historian, M eline; Mary Queen.of Scots and Her Marriage with Bothwell, Seven Letters to the Tablet, by Hon. Colin Lindsey; The Student’s Mythology, White; Little Pierro, by J. M. C.; Balt Gun Club, Vernes; Memorial Addresses, Life and Character of Matthew H. Carpenter.
—Shakespeare’s Birthday, the Euglossians gave an entertainment, introductory to the grand .June Oratorical Contest, and carried out the following
Programme: part 1. Music................................... Orchestra
Chorus—“ Morning in the Country ”.......Orphconics
Address of the Evening.....................J.	Solon
Richard III.—Act I.
King Henry V...............................H.	Foote
Richard, Duke of Gloster.................F. Dexter
“The Seven Ages” (From “As You Like It”)
.............................................................. ... - J. Ryan Devereux “The Last of the^Iarwhale”.....J.J. Bannigan
Music—Piano Duo...........Prof. Paul and G. Schaeffer
Scenefront Julius Ccesar.—Act II.
Cassius................................J. J. Conway
Brutus.....................................H.	Foote
• Casca................................T. Callaghan
Scene from Henry VIII.
Wolsey.....................................J.	Solon
Scene from Henry IV.
Hotspur...............................A.	A. Browne
Falstaff...............................    D;	Taylor
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
PART II.
•Song—“The Tempest of the Heart”......W. E. Ramsay
“ The Miser ”............................E. A. Otis
Othello..................................J. Kleiber
Scenes from Hamlet. ■
Hamlet................................J.	Hagenbarth
Ghost....................................C. Porter
ist Gravedigger.......................J. Monschein
2d Gravedigger...........................C. Mason
Horatio...............................J. McDonald
part in.
Song—“ How so Fair” (Arfa '■'■Martha"')......W. Devine Soldier’s Pardon.............................J. Garrity
Characteristic Speech....................0.	B. Spencer
Quarrel Scene from fnlins Ctesar.
Cassius....................................G.	E. Clarke
Brutus.....................................C.	2k. Tinley
Music..................................String	Quartette
Scene from The Merchant of Venice.
Duke of Venice...............................E. A. Otis
Shylock......................................D. Saviers
Merchant of Venice..........................W. E. Ramsay
Portio......................................J. J. Conway
Bassanio...................................0. B. Spencer
Gratiano.....................................J. Carroll
Nerissa........................’...........J.	Fitzgerald
Music........................................Orchestra
Roll of Honor.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Messrs. Anchondo, Ancheta, Aguilera, Alvarez, Arce, Baca, Bowers, Brosseau. Barron, Becerra, Bailey, Browne, V. Burke, F. Burke, F. Combe, C. Combe, J. Carroll, Coll, Cass, Cartier, Cusack, Crawford, Celia, Conway, Cussen, Callaghan, Creel, De Groot, De Wolf, De Haven, A. Dennis, Danielson, Daily, F. Diaz, A. Diaz, Ewing, Feltz, Fogarty, Farrell, T. Fenlon, E. Fenlon, Fitzgerald, Frain, Grothaus, Gibson, Gooley, Goulding, Gonzalez, Guthrie, Gutierrez, Gray, Galarneau. Hyde, Howard, Hausberg. Hamlyn, Kelly, Kavanaugh, Kolars, Kleiber, Lucas, Ale-Ginn, McErlain. Jno. McCabe, McKinnery, Marquez, C. Murdock, Mittendorf, McIntyre, J. McNamara, T. McNamara, McLaughlin, Mahoney, Madden, Mahon, G. O’Brien, Ott, O’Dea, O’Rourke, Orchard, Otis, O’Kane, O’Connell, H. Paschel, C. Paschel, Pour, Rudge, Reach, Riley, Rui, Solon, Shea, Steis, Slattery, Spangler, Scholfield, Spencer, Steele, Saviers, E. Smith, J. Smith, G. Smith, Sanchez, Tinley, Uranga, Warren. Waggoner, Lechuga.
'	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Masters Adler, Arnold, Anchondo, Aguilera, Borg-schulze, Barons, Berthelet, Barela, F. Brown, Baur, Barclay,* Benner, Breen, Curtis, Chaves, Cavaroc,* Cleary, Costigan, Cassilly, Coleman, Dwenger, Dexter, Ewing, Eisenhauer, Fitzgerald, Fendrich, Fehr, Foote, Finckh, Garrity, Gerlach, Gimbel, Grunsfeld, Hagenbarth, Houck, E. J. Howard, Halligan, Houlihan, Holman, Hagerty, Jensch, Johnson, Letcher, G. Lewis, R. Lewis, Luther, Miller, Menig, A. Moye, Mug, Major, Martinez, McDonald, J. McGordon, Norfolk, O’Brien, Plishke, C. Porter, Perley, Rogers, Regan, Reynolds, Ruppe, Sedberry, Schott, L. Scheuerman, M. Scheuerman, Saunders, Shields, Talbot, D. Taylor, G. Tarrant, W. Wagoner, P. Wagoner, Wab-raushek, Uranga, Williamson, Wilkes, Portilia, Parres, E. Proudhomme, C. Proudhomme, Keeler, Ruffing.
MINIM DEPARTAIENT.
Masters Ackerman, Adams, J. Addington, 2k. Arrache* Boos, Bunker, Butterfield, Crawford, Crotty, Cole, M. Coad, Cummings, Devine, J. Devereux, A. Devereux, Ernest, Fitzgerald, Fulwiler, Gibson, W. Grimes, A. Grimes, Garrity, Grunsfeld, C. Inderrieden, R. Inderrieden, Jones, Krause, J. Kelly, E. Kelly, La Tourette, Lewis, B. Lindsey, W. McCourt, M. McCourt, J. McGrath, E. McGrath, T. McGuire, McVeigh, Muessel, Manzanares, Meehan, Mor
gan, F. Mullen, A. Mullen, A. Nester, M. O’Kane, Otis, O’Connor, D. Prindiville, V. Papin, Paden, Quill,-Sumner, Schmitz, Spencer, Shoneman, Sokup, L. Scherrer, E. Scherrer, Uranga, West. A. Welch, Weston, C. Young.
* Omitted last week by mistake.
Class Honors.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
Messrs. R. Aguilera, Gonser, Cussen, McErlain, Lister, Pour, Lucas, Creel, Gonzales, J. Uranga, Marquez, J. Anchondo, Becerra, O’Dea, Kauffman, Mittendorf, Orchard, Hausberg, J. McNamara, F. Combe, Kleiber, Sanchez, Feltz, Halligan, Regan, Finckh, Sedberry.
List of Excellence.
[The students.mentioned in this list are those who have been the best in the classes of the courses named—according to the competitions, which are held monthly.
COURSE OF MODERN LANGUAGES, FINE ARTS AND SPECIAL BRANCHES.	.
German—Messrs. Holman, Feltz, F. Rogers, M. O’Kane, Deaderick, Ott, Harris, Gerlach, Cleary; French— Messrs. Cavaroc, C. Combe, W. Cartier, McCarthy; Spanish—F. Dexter; Vocal Music—Messrs. J. Murphy, Orchard, Cavaroc, Foote, Cleary, Schaefer, Ramsay, H. Porter, G. O’Kane, Mahon, J. Gallagher, H. Paschel, Gib-ert, L. Cavanaugh; Drawing—Messrs. Foote, Fehr, Creel, Conway, Fitzgerald, C. Murdock, Marquez, H. Porter, Saviers, Sykes; Phonography—Messrs. Celia, Foote, Halligan, G. O’Brien, Clarke, Feltz; Elocution—Messrs. Tinley, Solon, Otis. Saviers, Ramsay, Conway, D. Taylor, Foote. Spencer, A. Browne, C. Porter, J. Devereux, Steis, Dexter, Coll, Hagenbarth, Reach, Monschein, Banigan, Ancheta, P. Howard, J. Carroll, Costigan, O’Dea, Reynolds, Garrih, Harris, Fendrich, J. Rogers, Gibert, Mul-kern, Callaghan, Rudge, McErlaine, Kleiber, Farrell, W. Henry, McDonald, Orchard, Strauss, Guthrie, Galarneau, Grothaus. Fitzgerald, Kaufman; Telegraphy—Messrs. Berthelet, Cussen. De Haven, Gallagher, O’Rourke.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Arithmetic—Masters W. Welch, Spencer, F. Nester, Delaplane, Otis, Bunker. La Tourette, McVeigh, Paden, J. Addington, Costigan! Noonan, Quiggle, 2k. Grimes, E. Scherrer, Morgan; French—R. Papin; Reading—Masters B. Lindsey, R. Papin. Morrison, M. O’Kane, Devine, • Browne. Henrv, Curtis. Ernest, West, Stange, Schmitz, Fitzgerald, E. Kelly, Grunsfeld: Penmanship—Masters West, W, Welch. A. Nester, Harris. Comins, Sokup, J. Kellv, Dirksmeyer, Wright, Studebaker, Meehan. ■
Note.—By mistake the name of John H. Fendrich, was omitted last week from the List of Excellence for Algebra.
For the Dome.
Mr. James Fenlon............................$100.00
Miss Mary Gillenr, Boston, Mass............... 5.00
A Friend sends................................200.00	'
and writes as follows:
Very Rev. Father General, C. S. C.:
Very Rev. Dear Father:—With my fervent prayers for a happy Easter and many, many returns of this glorious Festival on earth before you go to the eternal Easter in heaven, accept enclosed $200.00 lor myself my children, grand-children, and my two little great children, to place one of the twelve stars around the head of the Statue of our Blessed Mother. I do not -vish my name to be knoym, save to yourself, my family and to the Blessed Virgin, my dear Mother, to whom through you I make my offering. Begging your blessing, Very Rev. dear Father, and always a place in your holy prayers, I am ever gratefully and devotedly
.	Yours, in the Sacred Hearts of f. M. J.
526	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
Saint JRary's Academy.
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
—Catherine Fehr, Clara Richmond, and Ada Malbceuf received 100 in lessons.
—St. Angela’s Literary Society is occupied with Tales of Ancient History.” Reader, Miss Steele. —The fourth Music-Lecture of the scholastic year was delivered in the study-hall, on Saturday evening.
■ —The final examination in Book-Keeping of rhe Class of Graduates took place on Friday, and was presided by Rev. Father Shqrtis.
—At the regular Academic reunion, Miss Udall read “ The Early Years of Louise Lateau,” by Miss Frances Howe. Miss Horn read Father Abram Ryan’s beautiful poem “To the Sacred Heart.”
—Agnes Strickland’s “ Lives of the Queens of England” is being read by the members of St. Catharine’s Literary Society. The readers at the last meeting were the Misses Munger, and Horn.
—St. Teresa’s Literary Society is engaged in the perusal of “ The Galleries of Florence,” by Nathaniel Hawthorne. The greatest interest is manifested in the charming descriptions and the brilliant style of the author. On Tuesday Miss Campbell was the reader.
—Cordial good wishes for a long and happy life, and for all the joy which the earnest practice of their inherited Christian faith can impart, are earnestly extended to Mr. John J. Fitzgibbons and his amiable bride,—formerly Miss Annie Cun-nea, a Graduate of Class ’70.
—The autograph letter of General George 0	4	O
Washington, first President of the United States, and presented by Miss Hemmenway, of Burlington, Vermont, for the benefit of the new church to be erected at St. Mary’s, was drawn by Mrs. McKeough, of Chicago, a-Graduate of Class ’77.
—The chapel, has been completely renovated and now presents a very much improved appearance. The walls have been freshly calcimined; .the blinds newly varnished, and the iron pillars and wood work beautifully painted and gilded. Thanks to the generous bride of. Mr. J. J. Fitz-gibbons, of Chicago.
—A fine St. Bernard’s dog, one of the real __	,	.	-	O'	,	, European stock, utters his “ deep-mouthed bay,” now and then, on the Academy grounds. Those who have long been interested in the beneficent labors of the noble canine assistants who work the •charitable will of the “ Pious Monks • of St. Bernard ” amid the Alpine snows, feel a great esteem :for his strawberry blonde dogship.
—The Roman mosaic cross was, for the second -time in two weeks, drawn by Miss Bailey. Those who were equally entitled to the honor were fhe Misses Ida Allen, Best, Brown, Chaves, Cox, Dillon, Eldred, Fehr, Halsey, E. and S. Jackson,
Keyes, Moshier, McEwen, Malbceuf, Richmond, Schmidt, Shephard, Sheekey, and Voradenburg.. As the prize seemed attracted to the head of the alphabet, Miss Bailey very graciously waved her claim in favor of Miss Allen.
—On Sunday afternoon, in the Chapel of Loreto, the Misses Emma Neu, Mary Reynolds and Elizabeth Carney were received as aspirants to the honor of membership, in the Society of the Children of Mary. The Misses May Cummings, Annie Heck-ard, Julia Fogerty and Margaret Murphy were received as full members. The demands and Act of Conseci ation were read, respectively, by Misses Carney and Hcckard. Rev. Farber Shortis conducted the ceremonies, and addressed some very important considerations to the young ladies. .
—The new publication of Noonan & Co., Boston, “ Glimpses of the Supernatural,” kindly donated by the Rev. editor of The Ave Maria, entertained St. Agnes’s Literary Society last Tuesday. Judge Dunne’s remarkable experience, was read by Agnes English, and Hannah Stumer- read some pages from the second article. The youthful listeners were very unwilling to suspend the thread of the narrative, and look anxiously forward to the time when it may be resumed. They are greatly obliged to the Rev. donor of the valuable work.
Literature and. Art in the Middle Ages.
A theme at once vast and important, is supplied to the student of history, in the vicissitudes of literature and art during the Middle Ages: it is vast because it comprises a period of one thousand years, and it is important .because it exhibits the rise and progress of institutions to which we owe the civilization and the political liberties for which we are so justly thankful.
The beginning and end of that period called the Middle Ages have been variously assigned by chronologists and historians, but preference is given to the opinion which dates the commencement, at the downfall of the Roman Empire in the West, A. D. 476, and which fixes the termination in 1453, when that same haughty empire met its final overthrow in the East.
The Western empire, established by Augustus, lasted about five hundred years. When Constantine the Great established'dris’throne in Constantinople, in 330, he founded the Eastern Empire which remained intact until 1123. s	'
The causes’ of the partial decline of letters during this period of nine hundred and seventy-seven years is obvious to any adept in history. We find them identical with those agencies which gradually weakened, and finally overthrew the Roman Empire in.the West. : Chief among these was the invasion of the Northmen, from whose devastations, Italy, more than any other country suffered deplorable losses. These infuriated barbarians not only arrested agriculture and. all the .corresponding domestic arts, but with merciless sword, and re
THE ISOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
527
sistless flames', they overran and pillaged towns and cities, destroying valuable libraries and treasures of untold worth to the scholar and the learned. They tore down or defaced the finest monuments of human handiwork, and despised the most subtle and precious works of genius. They spared nothing, however noble, however sacred. Even churches and monasteries, were burned as so much stubble.
'Monte Cassino, that grand stronghold .of monastic life,—built by St. Benedict, the father of Western Monks, was not exempt. That holy and beautiful house where dwelt souls who had known the world but to despise and forsake it, and speaking of whom the great Roger Bede Vaughn says, “ It is to be expected that men who could abandon a bright future to live in penance on the mountain, •who could give up the society of tender friends out ■of affection for the Crucified, should be men of deep, large heart; of free, strong spirit; of lovely, pure lives,—fit to regenerate the world;” the home of these peaceful scholars was not respected by the savage invaders.
Totila had once, it is true, made a pilgrimage of reverence there, but in 580 this famous monastery was destroyed by the Lombards.
The Alexandrian Library was demolished by the Saracens in 641, and its fate was unhappily shared by many valuable libraries in Europe. Letters continued to’ decline for nearly five hundred years, until the lowest ebb of degeneracy was reached in the tenth century.
A gradual improvement now asserted the dawn of a brighter day in the world of letters and art, and a steady advance for five hundred years, brought the golden age of Leo X in the fifteenth century.
Upon the downfall of the Roman Empire, and the establishment of the Gothic kingdom in Italy, about 416, literature received a heavy blow. But •amidst the turmoil of war and the storms of revolution, many were found in different parts of the fallen empire who devoted themselves exclusively to the cultivation of letters.	.
Theodorus, seventh Archbishop of Canter-bury,—about the middle of the seventh century—introduced Greek into Italy. Toward the close of this century we meet with the name of the Venerable Bede, the father of English History. Under him the Monastery of Lindisfarne became for Europe the radiating centre of literature. In the eighth century, the names of John of Damascus, and Paul the Deacon appear. At the close- of this century we behold Charlemagne boldly opposing the • downward tendency of letters, and successfully infusing a new energy in the learned, world of Europe. Alcuin, the friend and spiritual counsellor of Charlemagne, assisted in erecting numerous schools throughout the vast kingdom, which gave a wonderful .impulse to civilization and caused that period to "form one of the brightest pages in the . annals of French History.
, The darkest cloud " of ignorance, as we have said, hung over the world in the tenth century; * yet even then we find names worthy of honor
able record, as Otho the Great in Germany, and Luitprand in Italy. From the beginning of the 11 th century the cloud began to clear away, and the names of Gerbert, Lanfranc, St. Bernard, Alexander of Hales, Albertus Magnus, Roger, Bacon, Scotus, St. Bonaventure, and St. Thomas of Aquin appear, any one of whom, especially "the two last-named would be sufficient to immortalize any age or country. The causes which brought about this happy change are manifest. The custom of making pilgrimages to Rome and Jerusalem brought the savants of the world into more-frequent contact with each other. This tended to* elicit and stimulate inquiry, and promote learningin many ways. These pilgrimages paved the way for a series of great events which roused Europe-from her lethargy. The crusades broke down the: feudal system, enlarged the boundaries of dynasties, stimulated commerce, and, by throwing mem upon then* own resources, kindled an intellectual activity hitherto unknown.	-	.
‘	...	. S. P_
Roll of Honor.
FOR POLITENESS, NEATNESS, ORDER, AMIABILITY; CORT-RECT DEPORTMENT, AND OBSERVANCE OF RULES.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.	'
1st Tablet—Misses Adderly, Beal, Bruhn, Billings, Call, Cummings, Castanedo, Carney, Cirkel, Crawford, Dunn, J. Duffield, Dowling, Fuller, Fogerty, Ginz, Gove. Gavan, Addie Gordon, Alice Gordon, Heckard, Horn, Hale, B. Johnson, Kearns. Keating, Kearney, King, Lintner, Lea-high, A. Murphy, M. Murphy, McHale. Mooney, McCarthy, Neu, O’Connell, R. Platte, Quill, J. Reilly, Reynolds, Sheekey, Sheridan, Scully. Stackerl. Todd, Thomas, Taylor, Udall. 2d Tablett—Misses A. Babcock, Campbell, Calkins, Ewing, Fendrich, Hetz, Helpling, Legnard, Munger, Ramsey, Ryan Steele.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
1st Tablet—Misses Best, Brown, Bailey, Chaves, Dillon, Eldred,Fehr, B. Halsey, Haney, H. Jackson, E. Jackson, S. Jackson, Keyes, Lord, McEwen, Malbceuf, Moshier,’ Richmond, Roddin, Schmidt, Sheekey, Voradenburg. 2d Tablet—Misses Campeau, Duffield, Shephard, Snowhook.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
1st Tablet—Misses L. Chapin, M. Ducey, J. English, M. Lindsey, B. Murray, G. Papin, M. Paul. M. Reynolds, A. Schmauss. S. Van Fleet.	.
•	Class Honors. .
- [The following are the names of the young ladies best in classes—according to the competitions held during the month.]	'
.Logic—Misses Dunn, Papin, Call, Gove, Ginz; History—Misses A. Heckard, Munger, Danforth, Rosing, L. English Black, .Williams, Ducey; Geometry—Misses S. Papin,.Ginz, Gove. Dunn, Helpling; Natural Philosophy —Misses Reynolds, Wolvin, Morrison, Kearney, Carney, Kearsey, S. St. Clair, L. St. Clair, Legnard, M. Dillon, E. • Sheekey, Lucas, Quill, Horn, A. Babcock. A. Murphy; French—Misses Call, Bruhn, L. Sheekey, F. Castanedo; Grammar—-Misses Kearney, Horn, A. Duffield, Sheridan, Dillon, Morrison, E. Sheekey, Reynolds, Quill, Legnard, A. Murphy, A. Babcock, Stackerl; Geography—Misses Stumer, Roddin, Cox, S. Jackson, M. Chaves.
528	THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
BUCKEiWORF
FLORIST.
I Catholic Music
I OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
RARE and BEDDING PLANTS
ALWAYS ON HAND.
ALSO,
CUT FLOWERS, DESIGNING, and DECORATING.
GREENHOUSE, 217 JEFFERSON ST.,
SOUTH BEND, IND.
MASSES, VESPERS, CLASS .and CHOIR BOOKS, etc,, etc.
The Most Complete Stock
WEST OF NEW YORK CITY.
Send for Catalogues.
John Church & Co.,
CINCINNATI, O.
EUGENE F. ARNOLD (Class Of’78). W. H. LANDVOIGT.
ARNOLD & LANDVOIGT,
Attorneys and Counsellors at Law,
470 Louisiana Avenue, N. W., WASHINGTON. D. C.
L 8. & M. 8. Railway. |
On and after Sunday. Nov. iS, 1883, trains will leave South Bend, as follows:
GOING EAST:
2.04 a.in., Chicago and St. Louis Express, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo, 9.22 a.m.; Cleveland, 1.57 p.m.; Buffalo, 7.36 p.m.
10.54. a.m., Mail, over Main Line, arrives at Toledo. 5.07 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.44 p.m.; Buffalo. 3.31 a.m.
8.41 p.m., Atlantic Express, over Air Line. Arrives at Toledo, 2.17 a.m.; Cleveland, 6.37 a.m.; Buffalo, 12.46 p.m.
11.53 a.m., Special New York Express, over Air Line, arrives at Toledo, 5.12 p.m.; Cleveland, 9.42 p.m.; Buffalo, 3.31 a.m.
5.54 p.m., Limited Express. Arrives at Toledo. 10.00 p.m.; Cleveland, 1.07 a.m.; Buffalo, 6.41 a.m.
GOING WEST:
2.04a.m., Toledo Express. Arrives at Laporte, 2.56 a.m., Chicago, 5.41 a.m. '
4.28 a.m., Pacific Express. Arrives at Laporte, 5.22 a.m. Chicago, 7.51 a.m.
7.11 a.m, Limited Express. Arrives at Laporte, 7.52 a.m. Chicago, 10.11 a.m.
1.02 p.m., Special Michigan Express. Arrives at Laporte.
2.02 p.m.; Chesterton, 2.47 p.m.; Chicago, 4.31 p.m.
4.07 p.m., Special Chicago Express. Arrives at Laporte.
4.54 p.m.; Chicago, 7.31 p.m.
F. C. RAFF, Ticket Agt., South Bend.
J. W. CARY, Gen’l. Ticket Agt., Cleveland.
A. G- AMSDEN, Sup. W. Div., Chicago.
W. P JOHNSON, Gen’l Pass. Agent, Chicago.
P. p: WRIGHT, Gen’l Sup., Cleveland.
TOHN NEWELL. Gen’l M’ger, Cleveland.
ft MAN
WHO IS UNACQUAINTED WITH THE GEOGRAPHY OF THIS COUN-
TRY WILL SEE BY EXAMINING THIS MAP THAT THE
CHICAGO, ROCK ISMDWACfflCE'T Calls the attention of travelers to the central position of its line, connecting the East and the West by the shortest route, and carrying passengers, without change of cars, between Chicago and Kansas City, Council Bluffs, Leavenworth, Atchison, Minneapolis and St. Paul. It connects in Union Depots with all the principal lines of road between the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans. Its equipment is unrivaled and magnificent, being composed of Most Comfortable and Beautiful Day Coaches, Magnificent Horton Declining Chair Cars, Pullman’s Prettiest Palace Sleeping Cars, and the Best Line of Dining Cars in the World. Three Trains'1 between Chicago and Missouri Biver Points. Two -Trains between Chicago and Minneapolis and St. Paul, via the Famous
“ALBERT LEA ROUTE.”
A New and Direct Line, via Seneca and Kankakee, has recently been opened between Kiehmond, Norfolk,Newport News, Chattanooga, Atlanta, Augusta. Nashville, Louisville, Lexington, Cincinnati, Indianapolis and Lafayette, and Omaha, Minneapolis and St. Paul and intermediate points.
All Through Passengers Travel on Fast Express Trains.
Tickets for sale at all principal Ticket Offices in the United States and Canada.
Baggage checked through and rates of fare always as low as competitors that offer less advan- . tages.
For detailed information, get the Maps and Folders of the
GREAT ROCK ISLAND ROUTE, At your nearest Ticket Office, or address K. S. CABLE,	E. ST. JOHK,
Vice-Pres, b Gen’l M’g’r,	Gen’l Tkt. b Pan. Agt.
CHICAGO.