I
FOR FALL AND
NOW
WINTER
$55
SUIT BY PALM BEACH
COMPANY
MODERN WEIGHT- FALL BLEND
BLENRON-
3.
^GILBERT'S
On the Campus—Notre Dame
A NEW MID-WEIGHT
Here’s a brand new suit . . . mid-weight . . . and right for fall and winter comfort. A miracle blend of Dacron and the finest wools ... it resists wrinkles, keeps its flawless shape even in variable weather. In handsome colors and truly beautiful herringbones, glens, checks, stripes and solids.


No Carrying Charge
If you’re a student at Notre Dame, you have a charge account ready for your use at the Campus Shop. So, get what you want, when you need it, and charge it the Campus Shop way: pay one-third in January, one-third in February, and one-third in March. No carrying charges, of course. Select what you need soon from our huge selection of nationally famour University fashions.
BUY YOUR ESTERBROOK PEN at the NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
Swingline stapler
Including 1000 Staples
A do-it-yourself kit in the palm of( your hand! Unconditionally guaranteed, Tot makes book covers, fastens papers, does arts and crafts work, mends, tacks...no end of uses!
Buy it at your college book store.'
IT’S RIGHT ON TOP THE NEW ESTERBROOK "101”
Swingline Cub stapler,$1.29
Hurry! Hurry! Step right up and see the marvel of the ages! ... the new Esterbrook “101.” A different type of cartridge pen! It carries 2 cartridges in the barrel—one is a spare... so there’s no need to run out of ink.
The new Esterbrook “101” performs more tricks than a trained seal. Changes pen points as quickly as you can change your mind. Gives you a choice of 32 pen points.
Smartly styled, smooth-writing, the Esterbrook “101” is creating a 3-ring-circus of excitement... you’ll see why at your Esterbrook dealer’s.
Do it up big—top everything with the pen that has everything... the Esterbrook “101” Renew Point Fountain pen. 5 colors, available in squeeze-fill, too! $1.95.
The Esterbrook “101”
♦1.95
Long Island City, New York. N.Y.
Stfoittooli StemA
•T.M. The Esterbrook Pen Co.
Other Esterbrook pens slightly higher
4
The Scholastic

3.



The Notre Dame

Vol. 102
No. 2
OCTOBER 7, 1960
Founded 1867
editor-in-chief .
CHARLES RIECK
associate editor
ROY RUBEL!
5

&
1
>
I

MOVING TIME: A one month eviction notice has been posted for the SCHOLASTIC and the Dome by the University Press. Because of the ever increasing number of books that the Press is publishing, they no longer have the staff available to handle the numerous business matters of the two campus publications. So, we were placed under the jurisdiction of Rev. Jerome Wilson, C.S.C., vice-president for business affairs. We were somewhat disappointed in not having been informed ahead of time instead of being presented with an accomplished fact — especially when we learned that the University Press has been trying to place us under Fr. Wilson for over two years. But aside from our wounded egos we foresee no major difficulties and are pleased to welcome our new director to the Scholastic staff.
news editor .
THOMAS WEISS
featureseditor
THOMAS SULLIVAN
sports editor
< JAMES KILROY
3
copy editor , y
" 7 THOMAS MARCINIAK
J
y ,f fexecutive, assistant ■ ■
'I WILLIAMVEEDER
art editor '-;y- 7
; DENNIS LUCZAK
i
3

photographer• 7 A - J '• • • "iJ^ITERjDALY.-Jr:
business manager < > 7., JOSEPH FINNIGAN
1

circuiationmanager
JAMESHICKEY
‘i


r

,	, REV. CH ARIES CAREY,
\	f	z'J.W'ivArftfs'
NEW THINGS: Student initiative was put to the test at last Saturday’s game, and, thanks to many individuals, it acquitted itself quite well. Tim Haidinger and his Card Stunt Committee spent many hours planning and preparing the various patterns in spite of grave misgivings on the part of some. They also had to train the card section in the midst of a colorful halftime program that followed a disappointing first half yet the results looked very effective from the other side. As in any project of this size, problems will occur and two of them showed up. Aside from the occasional mistakes in color, many of the cards were not held evenly and there was no coordination in the lowering of the cards. Minor- difficulties, we agree, but their solution will add a great deal to the display. The second problem was the tossing away of the cards by the juniors and others at the close of the stunt. We understand that this is a standard practice at many other universities. If this becomes the case at Notre Dame we will argue for discontinuing the shows since the chance of someone being injured by the sharp edge of a flying card is much too great. And then there is the expense involved. The complete set of cards cost student government $435 — an expense that need not be re-incurred if care is taken and which should not be if it is due to such juvenile displays of exuberance.
’BOUT PLENTY: It’s commonplace to say that morality is relevant to an adult’s daily acts, though most of the locals would question the adherence to such a basic thought in the “dog-eat-dog” outside. Of course, one never doubts its acceptance by members of a large Christian community. Amazingly enough, there is at least one blind-spot in this campus’s awareness. The Bengal Bouts have been an annual highlight for a good many years, and so many, that one accepts them with the common reply that “I ain’t got any money to buy a ticket this year.” What is inexplicable here is the lack of moral concern regarding the Bouts. It is a symptom of our moral indifference that such a sport as violent on the surface as collegiate boxing should go uncriticized. There are theologians admitting such a sport into the class of virtue, but the many Catholics condemning prizefighting should make us pause and consider our backyard game. It is our suggestion that the officials of the K. C. read Fr. Bernard’s thesis in this matter before they involve themselves in what should be a highly debated project.
APOLOGY: In response to the many questions directed at the staff this week regarding the parenthood of the “parchment” insert in last week's SCHOLASTIC, the staff would like to apologize to the Notre Dame Alumnus for the lack of credit given them for this fine product. Suffice it to say that its insertion in the issue was not decided upon until after press time. As with all critical material in Scholastic, the editorial staff does not brand these ai-ticles with its official approval; on the contrary, we must take editorial stand to the effect that Professor Voegelin cerainly does not rate the level of Will Durant. Nor do the magazine’s editors subscribe to the plank that only “the events of history take place in the real world.”
MANY OR FEW?: The Blue Circle’s decision to provide buses instead of a train for the Student Trip will undoubtedly cause dissatisfaction with some. We agree that a crowded bus will not provide the atmosphere or space for cheer-filled festivities that a train can. However, buses will provide the opportunity for many more students to enjoy this event. The substantial difference in price ($45 versus $61) is sufficient grounds for making this decision. We wholeheartedly support Balfe Wagner and his committee and compliment the Administration for accepting a system that might prove a bit more inconvenient.
Help preserve masculine prerogatives!
Help fight creeping matriarchy! Join SMK. No dues. No meetings. One obligation only. Smoke your Kaywoodie of ten—especially among women. Flaunt its manly grain. Tantalize them with the lush tobacco-and-briar aroma. But never let them savor a puff! Kaywoodie flavor, mildness, and relaxation — all without inhaling—are strictly male. Will this return women to bondage? Maybe not. But it will be a brave exercise of your male prerogative... and pleasurable to boot.
Write Kaywoodie Pipes, Inc., New York 22, N.Y. for free SMK membership card and pipe smoking booklet.
Campus, Yacht Shape $4.95
$6.00
Connoisseur, Apple Shape $15.00
Custom Grain, Prince of Wales Shape-$10.00
Tuckaway, Relief Grain, Billiard Shape—$7.95
In Super Grain, $6.95. Standard $5.95. New crystal-clear-bit Tuckaway comes apart, fits in easy-cany suede finish pouch.
KAYWOODIE accents the male Zook
LEGIONS FOR DECENCY
Editor:
I noted with great interest the article in last week’s issue with reference to O the newly reorganized Hall President’s Council. If there was ever a need for just this Organization, a masterpiece of laudable Organizational intricacy, that need has indeed existed up until now. But the need would seem to have been satisfied, with the worthwhile reOrganization of this much-needed council, for ’tis my guess that the student can certainly be aided in his role as student by this chartered and legalized creation Q of officious and titular agencies with its necessary corollaric Sub-Committees, By-Law Groups, Sub-Groups with regard to International Academics, etc. Indeed, just reading the headline, “Newly Organized Presidents’ Council Meets; Integrated Activity To Keynote Group’s , Plans,” brought tears to my eyes and glee to my heart, for I thought to myself “Here Is An Organization.”
I only regret, as a former Badinpseud, q that the creation of Stay Members (like unto another worthwhile campus Organization), and particularly the creation of one particular Stay Creature, will probably leave Walsh Hall without its best candidate for the Hall Presidency.
Jack Bloart Walsh Hall
Editor:
I wonder if the Scholastic’s agencies O could determine just how extravagant were the monies expended for that garish and tasteless display of electrical power newly adorning Notre Dame Avenue? I notice your commendation of same in last week’s issue, but I wonder if you might not be commending the fact of lighting and not the preposterous manner in which the fact was here accomplished? Something just a little more sedate, and at least somewhat in keeping with the tone of a tree-lined O college entrance, might have been much more economical and greatly more appropriate than the myriad of brilliantly modern, spotlight - mounted, mercury vapor lamps.
Michael Kelly 221 Walsh Hall
(ED: We agree with the garish criti-,cism.)
(Continued on page 34)
.	The Scholastic
6
mr. keegan’s student
’ brave try
The initial attempt to establish an exchange of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s students, (Scholastic, Sept. 30), in certain accredited courses must now be summed up as a brave try. After the usual flurry of “no comments” and “reasons beyond our control” had died down we were able k to find out a few more tangible facts. The major difficulty seems to be a question of a loose versus a strict interpretation of the constitution governing the Sisters of the Holy Cross Congregation. As with many other orders there are regulations regarding the teaching of male students in a college operated by the nuns as well as recognizing the credits awarded by a men’s university. It was felt by the Mother General of the Holy Cross order that the exchange program conflicted with these regulations. But looking forward to the possibility of a change or reinterpretation of the constitutional provisions we would like to make a few comments.
। Such an exchange program can function and prove useful " on a higher level than a mixei- if it is discriminantly implemented. Nor need it be the beginning of coeducation as a rather silly article in the local paper implied. The feminine point of view is often a very interesting one, as we all well know — and though it may at times lack logical precision, psychologists are quick to point to their gift of intuition as more than adequate compensation. Such a gift would best function in smaller seminars and colloquia where there would be an intellectual “give and take” process or dialogue. It is in deciding which seminars are best suited for this that care ► must be used. Merely establishing “boy meets girl” situations is not a valid reason. As for a formal lecture course, though there would not be the element of an exchange, the prominence of the professor might well make participation extremely worthwhile for the individual students. Not only are there presently professors on 'both campuses who would merit such consideration, but there are also the distinguished visiting professors who come for only one or. two semesters.
Notre Dame will probably never become coeducational — and this is as it should be. A basic aspect of a university is that it provides a haven from the workaday world. To admit large numbers of young ladies in order to pursue a full cur) riculum would only destroy this refuge and create additional distractions. There would also be the problem of lower academic standards caused by the addition of the frill courses that seem to flourish in coeducational schools and the inevitable presence of women seeking MRS degrees.
Thus it is that we would welcome sweet young things from across the Dixie as guests, though not as an avant-garde group of an overwhelming number of the fair sex. We sincerely hope that the present conflicts can soon be solved and that perhaps a temporary solution might be. found. For as James Stephens expresses it: “Women are wiser than men because they know less and understand more.”—R.R.
October 7, 1960
Last week’s Scholastic article of Student Body President John Keegan was no surprise to most upperclassmen, acquainted as they are with Mr. Keegan’s previous statements and platforms. But for most it was the first opportunity to see the SBP’s program as the conclusion of a somewhat less than clear profession of principles and goals.
Mr. Keegan’s program for the ND’er orbits around the desire to make him “a most devoted student.” As, a matter of fact the word student has figured prominently in his earlier writings. As a working definition we may take the SBP’s own description of this elusive creature: “they are dissolving and forming governments. They are becoming more responsible leaders and less passive constituents.” Or, by definition, “They are becoming more devoted students and less of their unassuming class.” That this analysis of ours is accurate is borne out by his insistence that the collegians themselves must decide if this is to be their role. For, certainly it is not necessary that this young adult population offer apologies when it studies, writes, and converses (the common notion of the word student); most Americans are more than willing to let them fritter away their time on these — if we may believe Mr. Keegan — apparently trivial activities.
But the SBP explains himself further: “Our first premise must be the acceptance of an educational community (worldwide) wherein its members are bound together by common goals, problems, ideologies, and needs. . . . The members of this . . . are begging us to enter to fully actualize its potential. To contribute ... is to strengthen studenthood.” We are now in possession of our (or rather Mr. Keegan’s) commitment precisely as students. We are not called upon to employ our nonacademic hours by taking part in political and social activities. No, this is not the question — one handled well by Michael Smith’s Back Page of last week. Instead we are asked to consider our active political involvement as an integral part of our role as students. We are faced, finally, with a denial of the age-old notion that the student’s role is observation, absorption, and activity in matters intellectual.
It is, of course, Mr. Keegan’s prerogative to define “student” any way he wishes, but it is his obligation to point out that it is a revolutionary move. And it is our obligation to say that Mr. Keegan’s portrait of the student as an active young fellow is one that could lead to social chaos as it did in Japan. More importantly, it is a picture that denies the student the leisured opportunity to equip himself for later active citizenship and the full time necessary to train his mind while deepening the knowledge of his own personality.
But then Mr. Keegan lapses into temporary objectivity — and contradiction — with “Student Government’s primary role is to make a significant contribution to the academic process.” We must not deny the possibility, though, of a new “academic process” similar to the new “student.” In fact we are given more than a hint of this when Student Government’s 1960-61 program is outlined.
As if to emphasize the traditional “academic,” several refreshing points are included on the agenda. Among these are the “Power in Democracy” symposium and the student-faculty curriculum board. But when he has completed his presentation, the original effect is gone. If we make a rough estimate^ we shall see the reason why. Out of a total of 20 proposals thought by the SBP worth mentioning, only five will serve as direct “emanations from our philosophy,” i.e., SG’s primary role is in the academic process. Remember though that we have not contradicted Mr. Keegan’s original notion of students as leaders of today.”—CM.
-	7.
ON THE COVER: The non-objective sketch on the cover symbolizes the taste of artwork to come in future issues of the SCHOLASTIC. Not that all of our artwork will be non-objective, but it will have the same flavor and it will appeal to the same level of appreciation as this sketch does. This will be the policy of the art editor, and to promulgate this policy is the purpose of this week’s cover. Similarly, last week’s cover served the purpose of making known to the readers the policy of the entire editorial staff as well as the level of taste which they hope to attain.
RUBIN CLEANERS
★
Save 20%—Use Student Discount Card
★
217 E. JEFFERSON Downtown—on the Bus Line ★
Complete Laundry Service
★
Serving Notre Dame Men for Over 40 Years!
FOR THE BEST IN . . .
PIZZA - SPAGHETTI - RAVIOLI SUBMARINE SANDWICHES HOME-MADE SAUSAGE STEAKS - CHOICE BEEF
•
CE 2-5141
ROMAN INN
Corner Notre Dame - So. Bend Ave.
Kitty-Korner trom Fire Station
Makes your haircut fit your head!
No matter how you like your hair cut—you'll look better when you use Short Cut. This new, non-greasy hair groom adds body to the hair fibers, makes your haircut fit your head. Keeps hair neat, and helps condition your scalp into the bargain. Takes 2 seconds, costs a fast .50 P|US tax
SHORT CUT
HAIR GROOM
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
The Scholastic
a clean breast of it

CARD SECTION
The card stunt section has been adopted as a regular feature of all future home football games. Those in the section are requested to report to the stadium 15 minutes before game time, £ with cards, and stark naked, as it has been noted that the different colored clothing detracts from the general effect of the cards.
Confident as I am in the brotherly understanding and kind compassionate qualities of the men who read this page, it is nonetheless with a heavy heart that pen is taken in hand to make what must of necessity be termed an open profession of a tragic blot on my otherwise unsullied reputation, innocent child of fate that I be.
The whole tragic experience of my discovery of this shameful fact took place only a few weeks ago, as our little family sat at the dining table, partaking of the morning meal. How happy we were on that September morn, sharing £ our repast and exchanging those little bits of small talk and obscenities which tie a family together! In the background the radio could be heard faintly over the drunken moans of my dear sister, still unconscious after a night of regaling with hex- little friends. For a moment the announcer’s voice carried over the sounds of the new day and I heard him mention the date .... Sept-embei- 20th.
“Glory!” I exclaimed. Instantly I £ leaped from the table and gathered together my plaid Bermudas, my pencil, and several old Religious Bulletins and headed for the door.
“Farewell mama, farewell, papa,” I called. “The summer has fled, and it is time that I resumed on the arduous road in quest of learning.”
“In youi- undershirt?” my mother asked.
Sheepishly I remembered that I had thrown up on the garment not 10 hours
October 7, 1960
before, and admitted that a clean one was in order.
A FATHER’S LOVE
“Come here son,” my father beckoned to me. I sat upon his knee while waiting for mama to fetch a clean shirt.
“Ah, my son,” my father began, “how time does fly! Soon you will graduate from high school and will proceed to college and the pursuit of higher learning.”
“I already did that, papa,” I gently told him as I fondly stroked his hand. “I been going to college three, maybe four years now.”
“My, my,” fathei- murmured, “I did notice you weren’t around the house much these last few winters. How are you doing in college, son?”
“Oh papa,” I said as I still fondly stroked his head, “In the few years that I have been in college I have won the respect and admiration of student and teacher alike. I am idolized by my friends, who are legion, and am constantly amazing my instructors with my enormous store of intellectual fact and theory concomitant with my overwhelming breadth of moral virtue and obvious physical attributes. Not to mention the fact I can drink 9 out of 10 guys under the table.”
“It fills my heart with gladness to hear that, son,” papa sighed. “I have but one suggestion to make.”
“What is that, dear father?”
“Quit stroking my lousy head or I’ll break your stinking neck for you, son.”
With that mama returned with my Munsingwear, and I once again headed for the door. Oh had I only been able to slip from the room then! If only I had not tarried!
Being the affectionate fellow that I am, however, I stopped to bid a fond farewell to my dear mama.
A MOTHER’S SHAME
“Ah, my son,” she began, “how well I remember when I was young and in
nocent as you are now. Yet to feel the ravages of alcohol, yet to feel the shallow lift of a shot of heroin, yet unacquainted with vice. God, it was awful!”
“Tell me of your childhood, mother,” I lovingly requested. There the tragic mistake was made.
“Why son,” she said, “you know all there is to know. I was graduated from Mother Sotte’s Finishing School for Incorrigibles, four years later I met your father, my fathei- made him marry me, and that is the whole story. You had best leave now, son.”
“But mother,” I said, “what of the four years in between? What did you do then?”
I saw her shudder at the question. She refused to answer and tried to push me out the door. Failing that, she tried to push me out the window.
“Never!” she cried. “Never will you know of the shame which blights my life! It’s too horrible to conjure! Its shame is unimaginable! I will never reveal it!”
For hours on end I questioned her, always expecting the worst. Knowing my mother, however, the truth never once flashed into my mind. When at last she .relented, shock, dismay, and disappointment struck me at once like an enormous fist from the heavens.
I ran from the house, blind with tears of shame and rage, never to return. Now I must make a clean breast of it, though I know I face ostracization. For, on that day, I learned that my own mother, my own flesh and blood, was once, for four shameful years,.......... a St. Mary’s girl.
HOUSING
Off-campus students are advised that a limited number of single rooms in LeMans Hall are being converted to doubles. In order to qualify for such an arrangement, couples must be engaged or going steady. They need not, however, be engaged to or going steady with each other.
9
Why college men. choose careers
with DuPont
Every year, several hundred new college graduates choose DuPont. Many Masters and Ph.D.’s do, too.
From time to time we learn from recent graduates the factors which led to their decision to join this company. They cite more than half a dozen reasons. Here are four of the most important:
OPPORTUNITY AND RECOGNITION
They were aware that college-trained beginners go right to work with men who have achieved.
For example, research chemists work with individuals who’ve done successful research. New engineers work with pros, some of whom have designed new plants, or devised new manufacturing methods, or distinguished themselves in some other way. And other graduates, with B.A. or M.B.A. degrees, go to work with leaders who’ve been successful in Sales or Advertising or Treasurer’s, or another of Du Pont’s many departments.
They had been told—and rightly—that DuPont rewards individual achievement. And they were eager to start achieving.
RESEARCH CREATES NEW PRODUCTS;
NEW PRODUCTS CREATE NEW JOBS
Men like working for a company that believes in research, enough to invest in it...$90 million a year!
The fact is that important new products come from DuPont laboratories and go to Du Pont manufacturing plants with frequency.
Here are but a few since World War II: “Orlon”* acrylic fiber followed nylon (soon after the war). Then came “Dacron”* polyester fiber, “Mylar”* polyester film, “Lucite”* acrylic lacquer and “Delrin”* acetal resin.
These, and many others, have created thousands of new jobs... in research, manufacturing, sales in fact, in all Du Pont departments.
DUPONT BACKS EMPLOYEES WITH HUGE INVESTMENT
New graduates feel that every facility is provided for doing the job well.
Last year, DuPont’s operating investment per employee was $32,500. Since much of this was expended to provide the most modem and best of equipment to work with, it further increases the chance for individual achievement.
This applies to men in lab, plant and office.
DUPONT PROVIDES STEADY EMPLOYMENT
Career seekers appreciate the importance of security.
Today, the average annual turnover rate at DuPont is less than one-third that of industry nationally.
• • •
These, and many other reasons, draw new talent to Du Pont each year.
Prospective graduates, M.S.’s and Ph.D.’s interested in learning more about job opportunities at Du Pont are urged to see their Placement Counselor, or to write direct to E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.). They should tell us the course they are majoring in so we can send literature that is most appropriate.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING...THROUGH OttMSnT
* REGISTERED DU PONT TRADEMARK
10
fl
CatlifMi SctM
BUSES TO CARRY STUDENTS EAST TO NAVY GAME AND NEW YORK CITY
Sale of 550 Excursion Tickets to Begin Wednesday; Broadway, TV, Radio Ducats Available to Trippers
by STEVE STUECHELI
Friday afternoon, Oct. 28, about 550 students plus the band will board 25 - Greyhound buses for Philadelphia on the 1960 Student Trip.
In precedent-setting action, the Blue Circle Committee of Chairman Balfe Wagner, Denny Montali, Jim Twohy, Dick Hendricks, Bill Reagen and Joe Keating engaged a travel agency to assist in planning this year’s trek.
The anticipated price of $45 by bus is $15 less than that of the Pennsylvania Railroad. Travel time to Philadelphia g. is about fourteen and one-half hours by either means of transportation.
Included in the trip fee are the following: transportation, hotel room overnight in New York at the Barbizon Plaza on East 63rd Street near Central Park, Navy game ticket, box lunches and a souvenir of the trip. Options on tickets to Broadway plays may be available, but tours of New York can be arranged and there will be free radio and TV tickets available.
Wednesday lineup. All students will receive registration forms soon containing full details of the outing. Preference of companions may be indicated for the bus, hotel room and football game. The completed forms must be brought in person to the Drill Hall on Wednesday, Oct. 12, between 6:30 and 11:30 p.m. Those wishing to room or B sit together must report to the Drill Hall together. Since the group is limited to 550, tickets will be sold on a first come-first served basis at this time. Checks must be made out to Student Trip 1960; money order or cash will be accepted.
. Buses will first depart from the Notre Dame Circle at 3:30 for students who have attended their last class and wish to leave a little early. A special student trip dinner will be served in the Dining g Hall at 4:30 and the main group will de-pai-t at about 5:30 p.m. No cuts will be permitted for Friday afternoon classes, though cancelled cuts will be issued for Saturday classes. On the bus each tripper- will receive his hotel room key, game ticket, souvenir and box lunch.
The main caravan will arrive in Philadelphia about 8 a.m. Saturday morning and unload at the stadium. After attending a special Mass the stu
October 7, I960
dents have time of their own until the kickoff about 2 p.m.
Then to N. Y. Immediately after the game the buses will quickly load and leave directly for New York. A special police escort will lead them to the tollway and the buses will be similarly escorted into New York about 7 p.m.
The trippers have Saturday evening to themselves. After Mass Sunday morning students are free until bus departure at 4 p.m. In the morning there will be guided bus tours of the city. Return to Notre Dame will be in time for breakfast Monday morning.
All must buy hotel rooms unless they can give the legal residence of a relative or friend living in the New York or Philadelphia area. Those staying in Philadelphia with relatives will be picked up at the Valley Forge interchange on the return ri-ip. Tuesday, All Saints day, there will be no classes.
Commerce Dean Announces Resignation of Finance Head
The resignation of Professor LeClair H. Eells as head of the department of finance and business economics was recently announced by Dean James W. Culliton of the College of Commerce.
Eells, who headed the department for ten years, will continue as a member of the commerce school faculty, Culliton said. His successor has not been named.
A native of New Hartford, la., Professor- Eells has been teaching at Notre Dame since 1930, specializing in banking and foreign trade. He teaches courses in “Fiscal Policy” and “International Finance.” He is the chairman of a three-man faculty committee administering the College of Commerce Advisory Council Investment Fund.
Following undergraduate studies at Iowa State Teachers College, Professor Eells received a master’s degree from the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration in 1928. He also did additional graduate work at Northwestern University.
He is a former president of the Indiana Academy of Social Sciences and a member of the American Economic Association and the American Finance Association.
To Hold Pre-Election Vote Among Students
Before the national elections in November, Notre Dame’s Academy of Political Science will conduct a mock presidential election sampling the political preferences of the student body for purposes of prophecy and comparison to the electorate at large.
Terry Mosser, elected president of the Academy late last spring, will head a central committee of four to manage the project. Two additional committees will be set up by the group, one to run a campaign for Nixon and one to manage a Kennedy campaign.
Each committee will consist of eleven members, from which a chairman will be chosen. Three members of each committee will be trios of Republicans and Democrats respectively, elected from the Academy of Political Science. The Young Republican and Young Democrat groups will each supply three committeemen; from the student body will be selected three more from each party. Two of each party from Saint Mary’s College will complete the committees.
The election will be held on Tuesday, Oct. 25, from 12 noon until 7:30 pan. Voting will take place in each hall and off-campus students can cast ballots at the Student Center.
The central committee will supply each student with a ballot marked for his home state. Voters will be asked to indicate their usual party preference on the ballot. Both the electoral vote as indicated by the students’ home state ballots and the popular vote will be noted.
President Mosser, from Freemont, O., was a Kennedy backer at last year’s mock convention and was vice-chairman of the Ohio delegation. After graduation, he intends to study law at Ohio State University. Newly elected vicepresident of the Academy is A. Van Horn Diamond, Honolulu, Hawaii. Diamond was chairman of the Hawaiian delegation at the mock convention.
Dome Sets Picture Day For Class Group Shots
Pictures for the Dome will be taken for each class in the next couple of weeks.
Sophomores and juniors are to report to the places designated on their hall bulletin boards this Sunday, October 9. The attire for sophomores will be a sport coat, while the juniors are requested to weai- a suit coat and tie.
On the following Sunday, October 16, the same procedure will be followed by the freshmen. They are to wear sweaters and sport shirts.
Students are asked to bring the IBM card to be found in their mailboxes. In the event of rain, the photograph date will be automatically moved forward one week.
11
Cayce, Ryan, Medland to Head ROTC Units; Plan Stepped-Up Frosh Training Programs
With the commencement of the academic year came the appointment of seniors Charles Cayce, Thomas Ryan and Thomas Medland as cadet commanders of the Notre Dame AROTC, NROTC and AFROTC units for 1960-1961.
Hailing from Charlotte, N. C., Charles Cayce will direct the largest of the campus military groups the AROTC. A mechanical engineer, industrial option vice-president of the Society of American Military Engineers, the army drill team and Knights of Columbus, Cayce is a tentative recipient of the Distinguished Military Student award. This citation will enable him to enter the army with a regular commission, equal to that of West Point graduates.
The AROTC is confronted by an enormous first year detachment; and additional drill period has been scheduled to accomodate the 615 newcomers. Among his other duties Commander Cayce will supervise the relatively new curriculum concerning the training of juniors for summer camp. An honor system is also on the drawing board this year in hopes that student acceptance will make it a reality. Providing that the honor method is a success, Cayce feels it could very well be adopted by the other campus units and perhaps the University itself. A circulation of top student personnel has been proposed to enable all high ranking officers the opportunity of experiencing command. This change would occur next March and remain in effect till May, when the original officers would assume direction for the Presidential Review.
A chemical engineer from Buffalo, N. Y., Tom Ryan of the NROTC has been a Blue Circle member, recipient of
TOM MEDLAND, CHARLES CAYCE, TOM RYAN New commanders for ND's uniformed warriors
a Navy scholarship and National Science Foundation grant and vice-president of his class. Ryan has been selected to lead the largest NROTC unit in the country.
Ryan’s first duties will entail the handling and training of the recently expanded freshman ranks. A more comprehensive freshman advisory program has been projected to orient and counsel the 160 new midshipmen. According to Ryan, the board, composed of chosen seniors, junior and sophomores, has been established to attain “a positive approach to the ever increasing problem of adjustment, and to facilitate an advanced and stiffened first year schedule.
The AFROTC will be commanded by Thomas Medland of Logansport, Ind. A mechanical engineer, industrial option, he was named Grand Knight of the Knights of Columbus this year, chairman of the Engineer of the Year Award selection board, and Air Force chairman of the Military Ball for both 1959 and 1960. In addition to these duties Medland was past feature editor of the Technical Review, and is now the associate editor of the same publication.
Owing to a new regulation raising from three to four years the required enlistment after graduation for nonpilots, one of the smallest freshman classes in recent years has enrolled in the AFROTC. As a result of the decreased size of the freshmen squads, a stepped-up drill instruction program has been devised, and a more advanced training program installed to better equip the juniors for summer camp. Continuing as usual will be the Flight Instructional Program at the South Bend airport where two planes have been set aside for cadet use.
Theater Director Announces '60-61 Season Performances
Director Fred Syburg has announced the names and dates of the three plays which the University Theater will present this year. Philip Barry’s Holiday will come to Washington Hall Nov. 10, 11, 12, 17, 18 and 19. Shakespeare’s Othello will be presented Feb. 9, 10, 11, 16, 17 and 18. And Babes in Arms, by * Richard Rogers, will show their faces May 4, 5, 6, 11, 12 and 13. Season tickets for these plays may be purchased Oct. 10-14 at Washington Hall between the hours of 4 and 6 p.m. Prices are three dollars for the orchestra or centei’ balcony, and two dollars for the side balcony.
The University Theater’s expansion program for the year has given birth to a new organization on the campus, the Dramatics Society. According to Mr. Syburg, the Dramatics Society will attempt to coordinate the University Theater into a continuing, year-round organization, whereas formerly the theater organization was alive only for the three plays. The society will be composed of the many aspiring thespians who are interested in drama but not quite experienced enough to gain a part in the plays.
Mr. Owen Klein will moderate the £ group in a series of monthly meetings, and they hope to present a chamber per-foimance of Thurber stories sometime in December. The society will welcome anyone who desires to become a member to its next meeting on Monday, Oct. 10, at 8:15 in Washington Hall.
Former Students Enter 4 Novitiate of Holy Cross
Thirteen former Notre Dame students received the habit as novices in the Congregation of Holy Cross at an August 15 ceremony in Sacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan, Minn.
They are: Francis Drolla, New Orleans, La.; Thomas Elliott, North Tarrytown, N. Y.; Jerry Florent, Michigan City, Ind.; Kenneth Kintz, South 9 Bend, Ind.; John Lee, Oshkosh, Wise.; Walloughby Marshall, Apalachiola, Fla.; Patrick O’Connor, Bellefontaine, Ohio; George Rozum, Mitchell, S. D.; Robert Schoeneman, Hawarden, la.; John Sheehan, Stevens Point, Wis.; John Sheets, San Antonio, Tex.; Edward Soehnlen, Louisville, Ohio; Albert Zangrilli, Pittsburgh, Penn.
Following one year in the Novitiate they will return to the University of Notre Dame to continue their college studies for the priesthood at Moreau Seminary.
Two former Notre Dame students Donald McNeil, Winnetka, Ill. and Thomas Sowa, Cranford, N. J., pronounced their first vows in the Congregation of Holy Cross at an August 16 ceremony in Sacred Heart Novitiate. They will continue their studies for the priesthood at Moreau Seminary this fall.
The Scholastic
12
tv
Skitch Henderson to Serenade Sophs, Dates;
Highlight Decor Theme With 'Southern Mist'
MISS ELAINE KOLEK ‘‘For Southern gentlemen”
Ballroom floor blanketed in floating mist . . . dreamy music . . . food . . . dancing . . . these will be highlights of the sophomores’ big night as the class of 1963 presents the Sophomore Cotillion, southern style, on Oct. 14.
The theme, “Southern Mist,” takes its name from the multi-colored fog, which A will waft over the main ballroom of the w* Student Center as the renowned band of Skitch Henderson provides the musical accompaniment.
Henderson, a familiar face to fans of the Steve Allen Show, will play the melodies that made his group so popular.
The Student Center will be changed into a luxurious southern mansion, La-Fortune Manor, for the event. In the Rathskeller, entertainment in another £ vein will be offered, as request tunes are rendered by a small, grass-roots type group. Punch, tea, and cookies will be dispensed by the Philadelphia Restaurant’s catering service.
The first floor will be transformed into the drawing room of the imaginary hosts. Caron Court, wearing the guise of a beautiful patio with hundreds of
TALENT IN DEMAND
j " Auditions for “Patrician Follies" | will be held Wednesday, October i 12 from 7:30 P.M. until 9:00 P.M.
Those interested who can sing, dance, or act should call Jean Potter at the Patrician Modeling School, Atlantic 2-1366 or Betty Soldo at Central 3-2532. Anyone who has a combo or can play a musical instrument is also cordially invited.
twinkling stars overhead should be a popular gathering place.
The main entertainment, however, remains above where Southern Gentleman Skitch Henderson opens the invitation to dance.
The queen of the Cotillion will be Miss Elaine Kolek of Inkster, Mich. Her highness will be escorted by Bob Bartolo, general chairman of the Cotillion committee.
Another feature of the weekend is the Michigan State-Notre Dame game, and 400 tickets have been set aside for the use of the feminine guests. Also, 400 rooms have been lined up to accommodate the dates for the three day festivities.
Tickets will be on sale Monday at the Drill Hall, but only a limited numbei-will be available.
Aiding Bartolo on the Cotillion will be Al Torissi, executive chairman; Larry Shubnell, business manager; Paul Kelly, tickets and accomodations; Paul Tschir-hart, entertainment and Communion Breakfast chairman; Ron Stapleton, publicity; and Mike Connor, decorations chairman.
—Joe Caspar
International Club to Receive Applications for Membership
The International Relations Club, a discussion group devoted to the study of American foreign policy, has opened its activities with Mr. Walter Gray of the History Department acting as moderator. Composed of both American and foreign students at Notre Dame, this limited membership organization is noted for its comprehensive inquiry into the foundations of our state department’s national and international undertakings.
Although limited to 25 members by constitution, last June’s graduation left an unusually large number of vacancies. Mark Thompson of 333 Walsh will accept letters of application for full membership until Monday, October 17. Only freshmen are restricted from full membership, and they are encouraged to attend all meetings upon being accepted as associate members. The applicant’s letter should include his major, areas of interest, extracurricular activities and academic average.
According to President Mark Thompson, the purpose of the club is to further understanding of the basic issues which will decide America’s future. Meeting bi-weekly, the members read papers and articles covering various topics, after which those present are free to increase their knowledge of the subject by holding informal question periods. Occasionally, joint meetings of the Notre Dame and St. Mary’s International Relations Club are held to register the year’s progress.
/lit Q'lakaM
TBW1U
THE AfllEMIf
Monday night, the first meeting of the Student Senate was held with a skeleton staff in attendance. Student Body Presi-
dent John Keegan conducted the meeting efficiently. Reports were heard and over $400 was appropriated.
“Our primary role is to make a significant contribution to the academic.” This was John Keegan’s concept of student government’s func
tion. Keegan asked for a “unified and coordinated body” as a necessity to fulfilling this function.
Following the president’s report, the officers, commissioners, Blue Circle, Hall President’s Council, NFCCS, NSA and YCS all gave reports of summer activities and programs for the coming year. .
Jack Walsh’s Academic Commission has plans both ambitious and noteworthy, the prime innovations being a wi-iters seminar and the “Power in Democracy” symposium.
Social Commissioner John Clark talked of having Ahmad Jamal on campus sometime late in the semester. This is strictly tentative.
A number of new committees have been instituted this year, including: a dance committee, a public relations committee and a student rights committee. The dance committee was organized to put a check on free spending dance chairmen. Last year’s senior ball was a bit of a financial fiiasco . . . $2,000 lost.
In conjunction with SBP Keegan’s “contribution to the academic” will be a student evaluation committee headed by Tom Colleton. This committee will attempt a thorough study and reevaluation of the curriculum in the undergraduate schools.
$250 was appropriated for a piano by the Senate; The purchase will alleviate the cost and inconvenience involved in borrowing one for victory dances and other social functions.
$50 went to the Young Democrats. The Young Republicans received $50 last year.
Some controversy was engendered by a motion to appropriate $125 for the Engineering Honor Society. The Society is applying for national affiliation and needs money to send a representative to the national conference.
John Clark felt that the appropriation would be usurping the financial role of the administration. He rhetorically spoke of a time when “We may be giving out more scholarships than the university as a whole.” Despite Clark’s “eloquence,” the motion, certainly in accord with a “contribution to the academic,” was passed unanimously.
October 7, 1960
Junior Class President Discloses 1960 Plans; To Emphasize Expanded Activities Program
A Parents-Son Week End and the Junior Prom highlight the Junior Class plans for the year as disclosed by Class President Chris Buckley. A committee will be chosen late in October to arrange for the week end, which will be held March 10, 11 and 12. Another group will be formed in November to prepare for the Prom.
An earlier event of importance, in which the juniors are taking a leading part, is a student trip to the Northwestern game on October 22. Buckley chairs a Student Senate committee responsible for the necessary preparations. Round trip transportation will be arranged for $2.50 and agreements are being reached with several Chicago hotels for special student rates.
President Buckley stated that the class plans a huge program to answer critics who contend that class government is unnecessary in view of the Hall Councils and the Student Senate. This program is to be divided into five parts — social, academic, religious, athletic and publicity.
A mixer in the LaFortune Student Center tomorrow will be the first of many social activities. The chief feature of the academic program is a lecture series that includes faculty and
Engineers To Hold Evaluation Of Status, Faculty, Curriculum
In line with the new policy of the Joint Engineering Council of playing a more active role in the activities of the Engineering School, the Council has announced plans to conduct an evaluation of the Engineering College.
Under the supervision of Joel Haggard, Chairman of the Activities Committee, the study will consist of reports by the three other colleges. The reports will tell what the students in these colleges think of the Engineering program at Notre Dame. These studies will be conducted by the AB Advisory Board, Commerce Activities Council and the Science Advisory Board.
A second phase of the study will be a report by the Engineering Honor Society on the Engineering Faculty. Also incorporated in the study will be an evaluation of the course of study in Engineering.
Others serving as committee chairmen are: Freshman Advisory, Dan Materna and Dave Hipp; Program, Chuck DeJan; Sports, Ron Howard; Parliamentary Procedure, Tony Vierling and Jim Cassidy; Special Assignments and Open House, Jim Kaval; and Publicity, John McLaughlin. Rounding out the executive board of the Joint Engineering Council is Ollie Williams, Engineering Senator.
14
guest speakers, as well as some members of the student body. Roundtable discussions and debates will also be a part of this project.
A closed retreat at Fatima Retreat House is planned for next January. Two Communion Breakfasts, one in the fall and one in the spring, will also be held. The athletic aspect of class plans has already been initiated with a putting contest held the day after junior registration. Basketball leagues will be formed on both an indoor and outdoor basis; more support will be given the interhall athletic program. Much of this added support will come in the form of publicity in the class paper which will be published every two weeks.
Class meetings will be held every other Sunday at 7 p.m. in the Student Center. The agenda of each meeting will be placed on bulletin boards in the junior halls.
Foreign Service to Hold December Officer Exam
Foreign Service Officer Examinations will be given by the United States Department of State on Dec. 10 in approximately 65 cities throughout the United States. The Department is seeking students interested in such fields as economics, public and business administration, language and history or political science.
All candidates will be given a written aptitude test, to be followed by an oral examination. Those persons who are eligible must be between the ages of 21 and 31 or a college senior or graduate and a citizen of the United States for at least nine years.
Upon appointment, the candidate will receive three commissions from the President and may serve his first tour of duty either in the Department’s headquarters in Washington, D. C., or at one of the American Embassies, Legations and Consulates abroad.
Application forms and other information may be obtained by writing to the Board of Examiners for the Foreign Service, Department of State, Washington 25, D. C. Closing date for applications is October 24.
THIS IS IT!
Imaginative sophomores interested in positions on the SCHOLASTIC news staff, positions which offer an outlet for native wit and writing ability and which offer chances for not immoderate fame and fortune should contact Tom Weiss in 305 Pangborn.
FACILITIES
Library
Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 10 p.m.; Saturday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays and holydays, 1 to 10 p.m.
Rockne Memorial ja
Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 9 I p.m.; Saturday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sun- I day, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Swimming: Mon- I day through Friday, 3:15 p.m. to 3:45 I p.m. and 7:15 to 8:30 p.m.; Saturday I and Sunday, 1 to 4:30 p.m.; Activities I stop one-half hour before building I closes.	I
Gilbert's	I
Monday	through Saturday, 9	a.m.	to	I
6 p.m.	^1
Barber Shop	I
Monday	through Friday, 8	a.m.	to	I
5:30 p.m.; Saturday, 8 a.m. to 12:20 I p.m.; Barbers leave at designated quit- ■ ting time; no one will be admitted that ■ cannot be served by that time.	I
Laundry and Dry Cleaners	I
Monday through Friday, 7:30 a.m. ^1 to 3:45 p.m.
Huddle	I
Monday through Saturday, 8 a.m. to I 10 p.m.	I
Treasurer’s Office	I
Monday through Friday, 9 a.m.	to	12	I
noon and 2 to 5 p.m. Closed holidays. I
Western Union	^1
Monday through Friday, 8:20 a.m.	I
to 12 noon and 1 to 9:30 p.m.	I
Billiard Room	I
Monday through Friday, 9:30 a.m. to	■
9:30 p.m.; Saturday, 9:30 a.m.	to	6	I
p.m.; Sunday, 1 to 9:30 p.m.	I
£I
Railway Express	II
Monday through Friday, 12:30 to I 2:30 p.m.	I
Post Office	I
Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to I 4:30 p.m., Saturday, 8 a.m. to 1 p.m.	I
Closed holidays.	Il
Bookstore	K
Monday through Saturday, 9 a.m. to
5 p.m.	K
■f
Bowling Alleys	|i
Open bowling only; Monday through	Ij
Saturday, 12 noon to 5 p.m.	Il
Golf Shop	U
Every day 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.	■
until golf course closes; then Monday	■
through Friday, 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.	■'
The Scholastic	*|i
Contact Lens Specialist
Dr. T. R. Pilot
Optometrist • EYES EXAMINED OPTICAL REPAIRS GLASSES FITTED •
212 S. Michigan CE 4-4874
ROCCO'S
537 NO. ST. LOUIS BLVD.
Sirloin Steak Spec. Tues. $1.50 Carry Outs - CE 3-0976
In the same time-honored tradition
ROCCO'S NEW RESTAURANT Just a forward pass away from Notre Dame Stadium
CARRYOUTS - OPEN SUNDAY
Private Dining Rooms for Clubs and Parties—for Reservations Call:
CE 4-7224
18142 SOUTH BEND AVE.
ND Law Student Named To Nixon College Group
College Youth for Nixon-Lodge, a national student organization of Bepuhli-cans, Democrats and Independents who favor the Nixon-Lodge ticket, announced recently the appointment of Michael Phenner to its National Steering Committee.
Phenner, a resident of Neenah, Wis., and a student at the Notre Dame Law School, will advise the national organization on its program; the major purpose of the organization is to offer Democrats and Independents a medium through which they may work for the Nixon-Lodge ticket.
Phenner and approximately 30 other student leaders across the country comprise the Steering Committee. Studying law here on a Cavanaugh scholarship, he received the Dome award in 1959 upon completion of his undergraduate work. He also holds the Pro Deo award from the National Council of Catholic Youth and the Thomas J. Crowe award from the Catholic Interracial Council of Chicago. He is a past president of the National Federation of Catholic College Students and has devoted much of his time and energies to this group. Phenner was also named to Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities when he was an undergraduate.
"Welcomes Al Notre Dome Meo"
Your Headquarters For
Q OMEGA WATCHES
^rtcarvec DIAMOND RINGS
Bulova
WATCHES
BAD POSTURE
u/mna’ r
wrong
WEAK LEAD
OUTDATED STEPS
with your dancing
Don’t let poor dancing steal your popularity. Come to Arthur Murray’s now and let one of his experts bring out your dormant dancing ability. Just a few lessons will give you the latest steps, thanks to Arthur Murray’s “Magic Step” Method. So don’t miss out on good times, come in or phone now.
ARTHUR MURRAY
120 E. WAYNE
CE 2-3339
TO m,-.
PATEK PHILIPPE
Tho IForM’s Foremost WotcA
M Kt. Gold Chams Bracelets — Pendants Crosses — lAPeddeiq Bands
Charge accounts available
121 W. WASHINGTON CE 4-UU
October. 7, 1960
Just What You’ve Needed for Your Books!
You don’t have to be an engineering major to design and assemble your own bookcases, roomdividers, or TV and Hi-Fi units with Erecta-Shelf. It’s fun . . . simple . . . practical and inexpensive!
So easy...So economfcal!
Vertical Bookcase Consists of 7-20" Panels, 4-30" Panels, 4 Wood Bases. Assembled Size 6O"HX22"L.
Desip it yourself. To Fit Your Space and Needs
o
T r

Countless Units can be designed with these 4 PANEL SIZES
30"
By combining just 4 panel sizes in satin black or gleaming brass wrought iron, there’s no limit to the number of arrangements you can design to fit your space and needs. Note that straight panels can be used horizontally or vertically... and horizontal panels may be attached at any desired height on the vertical panels.
EASY TO ADD TO OR TAKE APART
Anytime you wish to make your unit taller, longer or deeper simply add more Erecta-Shelf panels . . . or change the arrangement completely. It’s a cinch to disassemble for moving too. Plan your unit (we’ll help you if you wish) and come in for your Erecta-Shelf panels and free detailed brochure.
Television and Phono Unit/Bookcase Consists of 6-30" Panels, 6-24" Panels, 6-20" Panels, 8 Bases. Assembled Size 30"H X 72"L
Horizontal Bookcase Consists of 11-30" Panels, 6 Wood Bases. Assembled Size 30" H x 63" L.
Comer Step-down Wall Case or Room Divider Consists of 4-20" Panels, 5-24" Panels, 2-30" Panels, 6 Corner Panels, 7 Wood Bases. Assembled Size 50" H x 50" L X25"L.
41
Room Divider/Bookcase Consists of 4-20" Panels, 8-24" Panels, 7-30" Panels, 8 Wood Bases. Assembled Si* 40"Hx82"L.
ERECTA'SHELF PRICE LIST
Panel Sizes	Satin Black Finish	Gleaming Brass Finish
20" Panel 24" Panel 30" Panel Comer Panel (24" x 24") Wood Bases		
AVAILABLE AT
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
-	-	.	_ I
16
The Scholastic

I	■ ■
I	, '
.A. TIME FOR GREATNESS
On the seventh and eighth of last month, over 150 alumni and friends of N.D. returned to campus for what they thought was to be a conference training the leaders of the library fund-raising campaign. They had previously been informed that plans for the new library had been completed and would be shown, that Father Hesburgh would address them, and that money soliciting techniques would be outlined. But upon arriving here from all over the country, they discovered that they were here to discuss an opportunity bigger and more exciting than the library program, something that had developed only quite recently. .
After the opening lunch of the conference, Father Hesburgh addressed the group and announced the Ford Foundation’s $6,000,000 grant to the University (Scholastic, September 30, 1960). The Foundation has agreed to match Notre Dame’s fund raising in the next three years 50 cents for the dollar to the $6,000,000 maximum with a strong possibility of the cooperation being extended depending on the results of the first 3 years. The grant is part of the attempt by the Foundation to assist institutions in different regions of the country to reach and sustain a wholly new level of academic excellence, administrative effectiveness and financial support. Father Hesburgh explained that in the past, groups such as the Ford Foundation have made donations to universities only after the particular institution had approached them with a specific program for which they were requesting assistance. This program of Ford’s does the opposite. Here the Foundation took the initiative. They decided to select schools that had already embarked on future development programs commensurate in scope, imagination, and practicality to the vast needs of American society, to approach these institutions and offer them assistance.
But more significant to the future of Notre Dame than the grant itself was the specific reason which, according to Father Hesburgh, moved the Foundation to select us. Ford was, of course, aware of Notre Dame’s development over the past several
years, for instance, the success of her faculty development program for which they had '	and of her extensive plans for the future.
awarded her $3,000,000 several years ago, However, before this recent award was made, Notre Dame had to answer the question: Why should you, rather than any one of several other fine universities receive this assistance? Notre Dame’s answer was that the Ford Foundation was looking for universities and programs which could make significant contributions to American culture. And while there are many other fine institutions in the country, none of these who would be in a position to make such contributions can claim to be universities whose tradition and basic inspiration is Christian, and thus one whose effect on society would be that of Christianizing it in any way. Notre Dame was in a position to make such a contribution and this was the overpowering argument for the Foundation’s decision. The creation of a truly great and truly important Christian university, rather than the construction of a new library, became, then, the dominant theme and challenge of this summer’s leadership conference.
Father Hesburgh went on to mention that Notre Dame had also recently received a grant from the Atomic Energy Commission for the construction of the largest radiation-chemistry research cen-
ter in the world and to urge the assembled leaders to surpass the goal of raising $12,000,000 in the next three years.
The President was followed by the introduction of and an address by the national chairman of the campaign (a non-alumnus and member of the lay board of trustees), Mr. J. Peter Grace, president of Grace Lines. At the conclusion of Mr. Grace’s talk, Fr. Joyce and the architect took over to discuss the plan of the library in detail and also the projected plans for the whole new East Campus.	.
Much of the remainder of the conference was taken over by the Notre Dame Foundation for discussions of the problems confronted and strategy and tactics to be used in raising the money for Notre Dame. That afternoon, for instance, Father John H. Wilson, Director of the Foundation, outlined the campaign in general. Mr. James
October 7, 1960
Murphy, the University’s director of public information spoke on publicity, while Mr. Cackley familiarized the leaders with the printed material to be used in the campaign. A question and answer period closed the afternoon’s proceedings.
It was universally agreed by all who attended the conference that its highlight was an address delivered after dinner- Wednesday evening by Professor John T. Frederick, head of the English Department. His topic was “What the New Library Will Mean to Notre Dame.” First he adequately discussed such benefits as the use the undergraduate will be able to make of the library in preparing his assignments, the opportunities it will offer him to go beyond what is required by the classroom, the attraction the library will have for distinguished scholars to come to Notre Dame, the assistance it will give her faculty members for- the research and publishing through which she will increase her prestige and influence, and its relation to the training of teachers.
But more importantly, Professor Frederick again called to the attention of those attending the conference the challenge of creating a truly great center of Christian intellectual influence at Notre Dame: '
“I hope,” he said, “that you may be prepared to share my conviction that Notre Dame is destined to become recognized as the greatest university in the world.
“We have a great university first of all because we have a great student body: undergraduate and graduate students of character and competence who come to us from all parts of the country. We have a great university because we have a great faculty. ... I have taught at three major universities in addition to Notre Dame. Nowhere have I seen anything approaching tke dedication, the degree of harmony and the soundness of purpose which mark the teachers of Notre Dame. We have a great university because we have great alumni . . . Finally, we have a great university because we have great leadership—men of high and clear vision such as I have seen in no other university administration, and of supreme capacity to realize that vision.
“The reasons for my faith in the future of Notre Dame are very simple. I believe that to become the greatest in the modern world a university must be truly democratic—democratic in the true sense that every student and every faculty member is valued and recognized for his own personal worth as a human person and as a member of the academic community and for no other reason. I believe Notre Dame to be the only great university in the world in which this true democracy obtains . .. Coming as I did from the fraternity-ridden campuses of other schools, Notre Dame made a profound impression on me, one which I have never found reason to revise. In the uniquely democratic character of its campus, I believe that Notre Dame stands first among the world’s major
18
institutions of higher learning; and I believe this quality will mark her increasing eminence in years to come.
“The other and deeper reason for my firm belief that the destiny of Notre Dame is no less than the highest place in the academic world is also simple. Notre Dame is a Christian university, and the only major Christian university which escapes the shadow of a great city and the limiting and particularizing influences inevitable in an urban location. Notre Dame alone among the Christian universities stands at the heart of the nation, draws her students from every state and sends them back to every state. Most of the great universities are emphatically secular throughout the world today. Father Hesburgh spoke this afternoon of the great universities of the Old
HALL PICTURES
. . . undergraduate hall pictures for the DOME will be taken during the next few weeks, junior and sophomore pictures are scheduled for October ninth, freshmen will be photographed on October sixteenth, in case of ® rain, pictures will be taken one week later, the time and place of each picture will be posted on the hall bulletin boards.
World, originally religious institutions, which have become secular . . . Similarly in this country the great universities which were founded under religious auspices . . . have become actually no less secular than the state universities, which are secular by definition. All these schools include in their faculties men of Christian faith and character. But the total impression of these universities on their students and on the world is not and cannot be one of religious faith.”
At the conclusion of his moving address, Professor Frederick was given a standing ovation; and Father Joyce remarked, “I expected to be impressed by Professor Frederick; but I did not realize I would be thrilled.”
The strategy and tactics through which Notre Dame must achieve these goals returned to the center of attention, to close the first day of the conference, with Mr. James E. Armstrong, Executive Vice-Chairman of the Foundation, outlining the history of fundraising at Notre Dame.
After Mass and breakfast the conference resumed with Father Wilson and Mr. Byron Shrimp, from a New York firm which has been hired as advisor to the drive, discussed the mechanics of the campaign in detail. A coffee-break intervened, and the foundation staff closed the technical por
tions of the leadership program by staging sample interviews with prospective donors. Question and answer periods followed both of these last two items on the agenda.
The leadership conference closed with three addresses after lunch Thursday afternoon. First Jim Wysocki and I attempted to convey the student’s attitude toward the new library. And Mr. Bernard Voll, an alumnus and lay trustee of the University closed the conference with a speech that gave credence, if Mr. Voll is an example, to Professor Frederick’s remark that “no other alumni equal those of Notre Dame in devotion to the University’s best interests and in responsiveness to the highest vision of the University’s future.”
Mr. Alan Powers, an area director of
the foundation, told me sometime after © the conference that it was considered the most successful program of its type ever held at Notre Dame. Having attended the conference ourselves, Jim and I found it a genuinely moving and exciting experience, an opinion shared by everyone we have talked with. Any ground for the school-year-cynicism we might have been tempted to was swept away by what we saw there. First we A gained a realization of the importance Notre Dame and her future have for Christian learning and for the world. The administrative heads whom we saw at the conference allow no limit to their vision of Notre Dame’s goals and potentialities for the future. And we could have nothing but admiration for the foresight and competence with which they have made specific plans for future growth and the means to attain it.
More than likely cynics would scoff a at the things said at the conference about the great past of Notre Dame along with the vision of the future which was expressed. But they miss the most essential point. The relative greatness of Notre Dame either in the past or in the future, is not and will not be a question of historical fact. The conference made the point, rather, that it is a more important question of moral duty. No one can deny the potentiality
The Scholastic ®
I))
is here. And if the potentiality is here, it is Notre Dame’s responsibility to fulfill the promise of Professor Frederick:
“These are dark days for the world. Under the tremendous pressures of the decades before us, only religious faith can preserve mankind. Only a Christian university can give the western world the leadership the times will require. _ That place of leadership belongs to P Notre Dame.”
The impact of the recent Ford Foundation grant has stimulated a keen interest by all members of the Notre Dame family as to the future expansion of the present campus. Highlighting the new skyline will be the impressive $8,000,000 Memorial Library, but a score of academic, office, residence, and auxiliary buildings come within the scope of the program. Last week the Scholastic reported on the details of ** the Ford Foundation grant, this week we will consider the campus expansion as definitively as possible, and mention a few more of the known plans for the library.
Speculation among the student body in the past two years generally considered expansion of the campus in the near future. With the announcement late in 1958 of the University’s 10-year program to raise $66.6 million, rumors B began circulating as to exactly what would be constructed and where the new buildings would be situated. The general consensus then, substantiated now, held that any expansion of the University’s physical facilities would extent to the east of the present campus—in the vicinity of Cartier Field. This was not unreasonable, since vast reaches of land were readily available — in that direction, and the new Dining ” Hall was situated in the far northeast corner of the campus.
Top priority in the new construction program naturally went to the library. Various alternative locations for the library were seriously considered, ranging from one overlooking St. Maiy’s lake to the present location on the site of the Drill Hall, and pai-ts of Cartier Field and Vetville. At this writing B scheduling plans call for ground breaking July 1, 1961, and occupancy for use two years later in September of 1963. As would be expected, the commencing of construction will necessitate a chain of temporary and permanent changes in the face of the campus.
Upon completion of the Notre Dame Memorial Library the students can expect the latest in educational assistance available for their use. The use of microfilm reading machines is one of the B more tangible aspects. There will be seating space for about half the student body at any single time, and the books will be arranged in such a manner that all the books on a given subject will be in the same area on the same floor and close to the desk space. The first and second floors will be mainly for undergraduates while the ten tower floors will house materials on specific subjects required for graduate studies. The penthouse will have air
October 7, 1960
conditioning machinery and a conference room.
The ground floor will have two main entrances, one opening on the south side and the other on the west facade of the building. Entering under the “saints and scholars” mural rising above the south doors there will be a large area devoted to the circulation desk and its attendant needs. Three elevators will be there, as well as, possibly, escalators to the second floor. The northern third of the ground floor will constitute the reading room and open stacks for liberal ai-ts and science students. Vast numbers of enclosed and semi-enclosed study Carrells, one, two, and four person desks, and group discussion rooms will accommodate about 800 students at one time.
To the right of the main entrance the functioning organs of the library will operate. Acquisitions and cataloguing departments, mailing room, service elevators, administrative offices, conference room, and library association office are scheduled to occupy this area. Also located here will be the Treasure Room, a display room where special exhibits will be shown.
An auditorium seating over 200 persons will be the main feature to the left of the main entrance. Also proposed for that area are a faculty lounge with
kitchen facilities, washrooms, and a large furnished lobby adjacent to the west entrance.
The second floor will have more than twice the reading room space and open stack bookshelves available on the first floor. An added feature should be approximately twenty to thirty small group study rooms where various classroom projects can be worked on jointly. A number of open-end closed study carrells and three or four large typing rooms will also be featured. The front of the second floor will house a large smoking lounge and the facilities of the Audio-Visual department.
Each of the ten floors in the tower' will deal with a particular subject of knowledge and have all available materials on that subject on the same level. It is proposed that one or two large seminar discussion rooms will be on each level, as well as desk space and study carrells. Each tower level will be 140' x 140' and serviced by three fast elevators. Also slated for occupancy on the tower floors are Notre Dame’s special collections of rare books, the Dante collection, the Mediaeval Library, and the Jacques Mai-itain Center.
Even the basement is designed for future use. While the layout described above will comfortably contain over two million volumes, the installation of stacks in the basement could double the library’s book capacity. Also on this lower level will be the Treasure Room, storage area, the University Archives, the technical service department, a smoking lounge, washrooms, and locker space. .
It can be reasonably expected that such a library will change the whole study atmosphere which now pervades the campus. Even prior to this academic transformation many physical improvements will be perceivable around the campus.
The initial change will be readily ap
parent to all students returning to school next fall. The Drill Hall will either be moved or replaced by another structure. There are currently three proposals being weighed, one being simply to move the whole structure next to the Aeronautical Engineering building. Separate ideas would be to replace the existing building with a “Butler-type” structure or geodesic dome across from the present power plant. The actual decision on this matter is pending cost figures, but something will be in use by next September.
As a direct result of Father Hes-(Continued on page 36)	,
19
CHESTERFIELD, L&M and OASIS invite you to the
Iowa - Notre Dame
Game Contest!



JUST PREDICT THE SCORE AND WIN UP TO...
*300 FIRST PRIZE JACKPOT *150 SECOND PRIZE JACKPOT *50 THIRD PRIZE JACKPOT

Pick up a pack and take a crack at experting the big game. If you are the only one to come up with the correct half-time and final scores, the first prize jackpot is all yours. If there are ties, you share the money. The same applies to winners of the second and third jackpots. Enter as often as you like ... and to make it easy, use the backs of packs* as your entry blanks. So each time you finish a pack ... take a crack at the big money!
HERE’S ALL YOU DO TO WIN...
1.	Predict the final score for each team.
2.	Predict the half-time score for each team.
3.	Use an empty pack* as your entry blank.
READ THESE EASY RULES...
1.	On the coupon below or on the back of an empty wrapper or on a plain sheet of paper, select the winner of the above game. Predict the final score and the half-time score (predict ties if you wish). Each entry must be accompanied by an empty wrapper from L&M, Chesterfield or Oasis cigarettes (or a single hand drawn copy of the lettering L&M, Chesterfield or Oasis as it appears on the face of the package). If entry is submitted on back of empty wrapper, be sure to include name and address, printed clearly.
2.	Mail entries to Liggett & Myers, at the address appearing in coupon below. All entries must be postmarked by midnight five days prior to date of game and received by midnight the day prior to date of game. Enter as often as you want, but be sure to enclose an empty wrapper (or acceptable substitute) with each entry. Illegible entries will not be considered.
3.	Prizes: FIRST PRIZE J ACKPOT—$300; SECOND PRIZE J ACKPOT—$150; THIRD PRIZE JACKPOT—?50. Winning entries will be selected according to the accuracy of the entry against the following in the order listed: (a) the winning
team; (b) the final score, and, as a tie-breaker, if necessary (c) the accuracy in determining the leading half-time team and the half-time score. In the event of ties among contestants, the prize money for each of the three prize categories will be divided equally among contestants tied for the respective prizes.
4.	This contest is under the supervision of the Bruce, Richards Corporation, an independent judging organization, whose decisions are final and binding on all contestants. Only one prize per family.
5.	This contest is open to the college students and college faculty members of the above competing colleges only. Employees and members of their families of Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company and its advertising agencies are not eligible to enter.
6.	All entries become the property of the sponsor, and none will be returned. Winners will be notified by mail. A complete list of winners is available to anyone sending a stamped, self-addressed envelope to the address below.
7.	This contest is subject to all Federal, state and local laws and regulations governing contests and their validity.
START SAVING PACKS NOW!
The more often you enter
the more chances you have to win.
w
filters
ucetn » mvcrs tobacco co.
L & M has found the secret that unlocks flavor In a filter cigarette. (Pack or Box).
O Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
r
Of
$
0

A&nlMAuit
Write clearly the final score and half-time score of the game to be played November 19, 1960 in boxes indicated:
FINAL
HALFTIME
IOWA	(	)	(	)
NOTRE DAME	(	)	(	)
Mail this entry to:
LIGGETT & MYERS, P. 0. BOX 327, NEW YORK 46, N.Y.
Attach an empty pack (or an acceptable substitute, see rules) of L&M, Chesterfield or Oasis cigarettes with this entry.
NAME.
ADDRESS.
(PLEASE PRINT)
CHESTERFIELD-Now "Air-Softened", they satisfy even more! (King or Regular).
OASIS—Most refreshing taste of all. Just enough menthol... just enough I
*or acceptable substitute (see rules).
Entries must be postmarked nolaterthan midnight November 14, 1960, and received at the above P.O.Box in New York by midnight November 18, 1960.
Submit as many more entries as you want on the backs of empty packs.* On each one print the team names and scores with your name and address as shown above.

We would like to tell you about action taken by students to foster- racial justice and charity in our hometown, New Orleans. One of us is Negro and the other White, so we hope we can give a complete picture of not only student action but necessary background: the social environment in which it took place and the action of state officials and other citizens occurring simultaneously.
But first we must present our idea of the role of the student in society. If one learns of the reality of man—what his nature is, how he should act, what state is worthy of this nature—and still he is not lead by his intellect to moral convictions expressed in action, then his intellectualism is sterile. A man’s education of himself embraces not only the development of the intellect but also the development of the will. For his will to fully commit itself and his whole being to what his intellect holds to be true, he must act. Therefore any conflict of action with studies is only an accidental and not an essential conflict with education.
The essence of the Christian life is love of God expressed in love of fellow man. One does not love his fellow man
by piously wishing him well in privacy of one’s room, if one can out and help him in his need.
There are times when increased
the get
stu-
dent action becomes imperative such as when elder citizens fail in their responsibilities.
student
action
This summer was a critical time for the future of the integration movement in our city. The public school system was under federal order to integrate the first grade in September following a “grade a year plan.” There arose a great debate whether to close the public schools and set up private ones or keep the schools open and integrate them. Some public officials even maintained that there were still legal means available to keep the schools open and segregated. More took place than the debate in the newspapers, in the countless speeches, and on the weekly television program “The School Crisis.” On one hand cooperatives of parents were being formed to lease public schools from the state and use them for private segregated schools. Existing and newly
INTEGRATION
> <
The Scholasti} I I I
22
formed private schools were flourishing as anxious parents tried to provide education for their children in case the schools closed and/or avoid sending their children to integrated schools. On the other hand, groups such as “Save Our Schools” and Committee for Continuance of Public Education were formed and worked to keep the schools open regard-| less of integration. Their argument was 4) the terrible educational, economic, and ; sociological consequences that would befall the city if it closed its public schools.
Many of the people working on these highly vocal groups were integrationists i whose work for open schools was tantaI mount to work for integration. Gov, ernor Davis, the state attorney general, the school board, and the citizens’ councils were hard at work to avoid integra-£) tion, in some cases at whatever the cost.
Background is important on the Church’s place in the race picture due to
the importance of the Church in the New Orleans social structure and student action in this area. The highest concentration of Negro Catholics in the United States is found in New Orleans and southern Louisiana. Also the majority of white people in New Orleans are Catholic. Around the turn of the century churches, not official parishes, | were set up as a temporary measure to minister to the spiritual needs of the Negro Catholics. The majority of Negro Catholics assisted at Mass here, but in the regular parish churches there were always some Negroes who attended and were seated in the rear by the ushers. (Although the Archbishop of New Orleans has been making clear for thirty 'years that anyone can sit anywhere he •iesires, social pressure still exists for iche Negro to sit in the rear and the
October 7, 1960
separate churches for Negroes still function.
When the Church is able to mend this “cleavage” in the Mystical Body, large numbers of Negroes and Whites will be involved. Once real integration is achieved here the other social institutions in the city will have a hard time remaining segregated.
The Archbishop, worried by threats to the Catholic school system if they were to integrate first, has stated that the Catholic schools will integrate no later than the public schools. In the meantime he has been attempting to educate Catholics on what it means to be a Christian.
This was the scene as we returned home.
The tense racial situation convinced students that now was the time to triple their efforts. The success of the integration movement seemed to be
hanging in the balance. Citizens feared to speak for integration because in the past those who did suffered economic reprisals and attacks on personal property such as slashed tires and the killing of their pet dogs.
During the previous Easter vacation we had formed an organization of students from Loyola University of the South, Xavier University, Tulane University, and Newcomb College. The purpose of this organization was to enable Negro and white students to meet each othei- on an intellectual and academic level through discussions following lectures. This group calling themselves the Intercollegiate Council for Interracial Cooperation (I.C.I.C.) sponsored a fairly successful lecture by a
noted anthropologist about the South African situation.
The first action we attempted was to get Negro and White members of Y.C.S. in the city and Catholic members of I.C.I.C. to assist at Mass together on Sunday. The aim of the pair, one Negro and one White student of the same sex sitting towards the front of “White parish church.” was secondarily to encourage the Negro sitting in the rear but primarily to give the White Catholic a visual experience of racial brotherhood in the Christian context where it has its basic foundation. The pair by their presence connected any mention of charity and justice from the pulpit with the race question. Over the summer the pairs attended Mass in approximately 17 different churches and reached approximately 10,000 white Catholics.
It was now July. The state attorney general got a state court injunction preventing the school board from planning to integrate. More and more of the people, many P.T.A. groups, and four- of the five school board members were favoring open public schools as the large scale private system was deemed unfeasible. I.C.I.C. printed and mailed out 350 cartoons cleverly depicting the naivete of the man who thought he saw the Negro side of the race question but really failed to do so. These were sent to such public officials as the governor, mayor, as members of the school board; and to clergymen, lawyers, doctors, and even to the White Citizen’s Council. A certain minimum level of public support is necessary before large numbers of people will venture from the strongly entrenched mores. We were adding our little to the public support for integration. Rudy assumed the position of white co-chairman of I.C.I.C. at this time.
He also attended a White Citizens Council mass rally to observe the segregation leaders and the crowd in action. This was very helpful in understanding the psychology of this mentality.
Percy organized a group of Negro Catholic laymen who were leaders of religious groups in their churches. This group drew up and circulated a petition to the Archbishop asking for a day of prayer for the intention that integration might take place in the spirit of charity and expressing the hope that conditions would be such that they would soon see the integration of their schools. This was not so much for the Archbishop, with whom we had had a chance to discuss privately this subject for an hour, as for the public. This petition was to be the first public statement of a large number of New Orleans Negroes strongly supporting integration. It sought to dispell the popular notion that the Negro is satisfied with his position in New Orleans. The petition was signed by 2300 Catholics and presented to the Archbishop. Two weeks later the Archbishop in his pastoral letter calling for open public schools, and reaffirming that “the Church is committed to integration,” announced a Holy Hour to be held
23
in all churches to pray for integration. The petition received publicity on T.V. and in the Catholic weekly but not in the city newspapers.
It might be added that the men who worked on this petition discovered much more concern among the Negro population than expected. The consensus of opinion was that the Negro Catholics of the city wanted immediate integration of Catholic schools in spite of legislative reprisals that would harm them most. Such strong feeling was not expressed in the petition in order to avoid embarrassment to the Archbishop.
About the same time two members of the high school Y.C.S. group organized Students for Continued Public Education, a group composed exclusively of white high school students. They added their voices to the growing support for open schools by expressing their views on television twice and in the newspapers several times. Another group of white high school students went to Baton Rouge to plead with the governor to keep the schools open.
In August the legal question on the possibility of closing the schools was settled. Three federal judges heard a suit by thirty-one white public school parents seeking to restrain the governor and state legislature from closing the schools. A similar suit was filed by the N.A.A.C.P. At the same time the state filed a countersuit to have the question of school closure declared outside of federal jurisdiction. The federal court affirmed the previous integration order, declared several state segregation laws unconstitutional, and issued an injunction restraining the governor and all others concerned from closing the schools. The end of the legal struggle was assured when the attorney general declared that his hands were tied. A few days later the school board asked for and received a six week delay, declaring that because of the previously confused legal situation they had made no plans to integrate the schools. Therefore it seems probable that on Nov. 14 a few Negroes will enter the first grade at previously all-white grammar schools.
In September student members of the Congress On Racial Equality (CORE) began negotiations with the management of downtown stores seeking desegregation of lunch counters. When this failed New Orleans’s first “sit-in” occurred. Five Negro and two white college students from local colleges were arrested after sitting-in for five hours at Woolworth’s. There was no complaint from the store management and no violence resulting from the sit-in. The city attorney after poring over law books for several hours decided that the students could be arrested on a charge of criminal mischief. This was on Friday.
The next day the youth council of the N.A.A.C.P. picketed Woolworth’s again with no violence and no interference from the police. That Sunday members of I.C.I.C. and other student groups
24
wrote letters to pertinent city officials and the newspaper protesting the arrest of the students on Friday. The next Friday three Negro students and one white student were arrested after sitting-in at McCory’s. Included in those arrested was the Negro co-chairman of I.C.I.C. who is president of the local CORE movement and a senioi’ at Xavier University.
In September also, integrated pairs of Protestant students began to go to Protestant churches in the city. They were admitted to some and told to leave others.
Meanwhile I.C.I.C. was completing arrangements for a lecture by a leading psychiatrist on the psychology of prejudice. The lecture was to be well advertized on the seven college campuses in
OU MIE SHU
. . . ou mie shu, graduate student at notre dame and well-known here for his work in past issues of the juggler, announces an exhibit of his paintings at o’laughlin auditorium, the exhibit is open to the public during all university hours from October second through October thirtieth.
the city in the hope of bringing together a large well-integrated audience of students in Loyola University’s auditorium.
The last student action against segregation in which we were involved concerned the segregation of coaches of the Illinois Central Railroad. We planned to return to school at the same time. Rudy was seated in the last car of the train but when Percy attempted to sit in the same car he was told he must sit in the first car, next to the baggage. Having some acquaintance with the laws of interstate commerce he insisted upon sitting in the back. This was accomplished but proved quite upsetting to the conductor. Upon arriving in Chicago we went to see an official attorney of the I.C.R.R. who insisted that the company was doing all in its power to correct the
situation. We acknowledged the immensity of the problem but asked that the man who acted as a race filter in loading the trains in Chicago be eliminated. We also went to see the vicepresident of the local porter’s union to ask that porters be directed not to cooperate in the illegal action of segregating the trains. From both of these men we received assurances that something would be done. We plan to follow up this initial action in an appropriate manner.
The future of good race relations looks bright. Progress is being made steadily but only as a result of the intense struggle being waged by those dedicated to the Christian concept of racial equality. The intense struggle right now is good, racial prejudice is being
openly challenged which means the younger uncorrupted generation is now hearing both sides instead of one. It is good for the Negro because he is having to suffer and sacrifice to gain his freedom. We will then have a portion of the citizens of the U. S. who will be less liable to take their freedom for granted and this is good for the country. Much soul searching is being done and perhaps through facing this issue Christians in name will realize their obliga- J tion of love to their fellow man and JS become Christians in truth.	m
There is a long way to go and today’s^H young people, Negro and white, muslin lead the way because as a group thej^K have had less time to be brainwashe^H® by their society and are more open t^w! new ideas.
The Scholastic
JOHN OLIVER:
IS LARGE
October 7, 1960
F all the Notre Dame concert rosters seen in the past few years, that of the coming season looks the most worthwhile. It appeals perhaps to a more limited audience, but such an audience is more dependable, and above all, more courteous (two traits which could have hardly been applied to the audiences of the past two years). Presuming that the serious nature of these programs (perhaps the word esoteric would be more to the point for some) will frighten away first-sighters and music-apprecia-tors (many of whom make more sound musical judgments by avoiding concerts than by attending them), we can put our trust in the good and musical things these artists have done and anticipate an aesthetically rewarding concert year.
As the schedule now stands the annual “Festival of the Arts” brings us the first group, the Collegium Musicum of Illinois University. These are musicians of all kinds—singers, string men, oboe-ists and even recorder players—who devote their time and temperaments to the great and far too neglected music such as can be found in the Medieval and Renaissance periods.
In January we will again be fortunate to have the Julliard String Quartet and pianist Theodore Ullman return to Notre Dame. The Julliard group has ascended to the most brilliant part of the musical heavens in the last few years with stunning interpretations of Schubert, Ravel and many of the moderns. And one need only recall the love with which Ullman approached Beethoven’s Appassionato, last semester to know that this, too, cannot be missed.
Much of the programming for the second semester is still up in the air, and very little definite comment on it can be offered here; we will cover it in a later column.
Meanwhile, musical activities elsewhere (in this case at Saint Mary’s) have gotten underway with an unannounced piano recital by one J. C. Kolb of Hammond, Indiana. The recital took place in Moreau Hall Little Theatre in conjunction with an exhibition of paintings by Notre Dame’s Ou Mie Shu.
Mr. Kolb, a freshman in the music school at De Paul University, Chicago, typifies (to the extent, I suppose, that any artist can be referred to as typical) the artist on the threshold of his art. He is technically ready to grow into it, he is greatly impressed by his own superiority at certain things, and he is sub-conscious as hell. The pianist began with Beethoven’s Pathetique and told a great deal about himself in so doing. The work is powerful, lyrical and finally fiery. This rings of oversimplification—especially in reference to such a masterpiece—but these three traits were the pianist’s own choice; he devoted his attention only to these elements of the sonata.
His power, found primarily in the opening bars of the work and in the repetition of these motifs, came straight from his shoulders, avoiding his wrists (which were inflexible through much of the program) and finding its
(Continued on page 26)
25
Critic at Large
(Continued from page 25) mark through his ample fingers, which showed a firm strength and facility in all of his playing. In the second movement, where Beethoven’s lyricism is sublime, Mr. Kolb merely functioned—he has not thought about the piece.
It was in this movement that the pianist’s artistic instinct (which seems to me considerable) showed itself. After the opening period the composer moves from the key of A flat major to the key of A flat minor. In so doing he rides his theme on a triple rhythm in the right hand and punctuates it every few measures with an answering staccato motif in the left hand. While this young pianist ignored phrasing for most of the concert, he invariably responded to this right-hand-left-hand conversation and in so doing brought real meaning into his playing.
In the third movement he tended to rush, and while his excellent finger dexterity allows him to make the most of bravura passages, his preoccupation with this superiority often distracts him from the actual musical content of what he is playing. At one point in this movement Beethoven completely changes his mood; his opening statement in C minor is fully developed and brought to rest and he turns abruptly to A flat major, indulging for several moments in the kind of introspection peculiar only to Beethoven. He immediately restates his theme an octave higher in the right hand and comments on it in the left hand by way of a descending, staccato, A flat major scale.
I found the fact that Mr. Kolb did not realize what the composer was saying in this passage not at all annoying; indeed, it is not to be expected of him yet. However, the frustration of seeing him play that descending A flat scale with a perfect staccato technique and not being able to hear it because of an overuse of pedal (something quite common in young musicians, but hardly acceptable in this case) managed to irritate us in spite of his age.
He followed the Beethoven with a Bach C minor Prelude and Fugue, announced with some nervous apprehension in anticipation of a bad audience reaction and a comment that suggested that the pianist and the composer were not on the best of terms. The composer may not have taken to the pianist (had he lived to be introduced) but the reverse seems hardly true. This piece, difficult though it may be, came to life under Mr. Kolb’s attentive and lively guidance and was by far the best presentation of the afternoon.
The program coasted through a Delibes waltz and two Chopin standards (the A flat major Polonaise and the B flat Major Nocturne), all of which were played with great emphasis on the fast and furious; the music, for the present, must take second place.
26
At the Theaters *
Any bets on tomorrow’s game? Let’s forget it for the time being and remember there’s always a funny movie around, even if it wasn’t meant to be funny.
There weren’t any really bad Nazis, they were just misunderstood. And the most misunderstood of them all was Captain Bernhard Rogge, played by Van Heflin, who sailed Under Ten Flags sinking ships after considerately removing all persons from said ships. Charles Laughton, as an English navy man sets out to get Heflin, whose scruples are taking a beating from John Ericson. But, of course, there’s also * Mylene Demongeot to soften the harshness of war. It’s all very interesting.
A couple of years back, William Inge’s name appeared again in lights as the author of the hit Broadway play The Dark at the Top of the Stairs. The screen version might or might not turn out as well, but it’s worth finding out. Robert Preston returns to Hollywood after six years and teams up with Dorothy McGuire as the couple with everybody’s problems on their shoulders. The wife is frigid and the husband is without a job. The daughter is extremely boy-shy (reminds me of many girls I know) and the son is afraid of the dark and the local boys. Preston d tries subconsciously to reach the last balcony seat and succeeds in drowning out most of the cast, and Miss McGuire seems too worn out to really appreciate the happy ending.
Shirley McKnight, as the teen-age daughter, finds romance with a Jewish boy played by Lee Kinsolving, but bigotry doesn’t give them a chance. The subplot concerning their relationship seems to have staggered in from the sound stage next door, though it’s well directed.
Eve Arden tends to overplay herself as the henpecking sister who also has had trouble lately with an indifferent husband. It runs in the family. Angela Lansbury wears a brunette wig for her appearance as a widow with unfulfilled dreams. All in all, the movie leaves off at noon one fine day with the couple alone in the house and going upstairs. As they dissolve into that dark patch up there, you can be reasonably sure they have a warming relationship ahead.
How can a picture have a cast like Dana Andrews, Rhonda Fleming, Efrem Zimbalist, Jr., John Kerr, Anne Francis, Keenan Wynn, and Troy Donahue, and still be a loser? To find the answer to this question simply walk to the circle, hop on that friendly Northern Indiana Transit bus, and catch the wonderful production showing this week at the State Theater. The picture with this crowded cast is called The Crowded Sky. No wonder. It’s a picture with a moral, although a rather obscure one, that our airlanes are becoming too overcrowded. No kidding. This is a fine moral, but the question remains: is it necessary to huild a motion picture around it? This picture is just too much like too many others, with the familiar scene inside the imperiled airliner and the resulting melodrama among the passengers. As if this weren’t enough to bear, the State offers another attraction (?), Young Jesse James. Besides Jesse, a few other outlaws (and an out-
The Scholastic
lawess) are also featured, notably Brother Frank Janies, Cole Younger, Quantrill, and Belle Starr. All in all, it’s a swinging twin bill for all you would-be commercial airlines pilots and Western outlaws. All the others forget it.
The Avon this week features that arty British comic Peter Sellers in I'm All I Right, Jack, a satire that concerns a familiar strife in our current society — that between labor and management.
campus character:

MANNING
MOTION
Manning is fierce as a tiger on offense, strong as a bear on defense, and wise as an owl in the huddle. Everybody’s All-American selection, he makes the AllAmerican selection when he chooses his underwear.
He knows you can do most anything in Jockey skants brief. Jockey skants are cut high at the sides, low at the waist, and tailored of stretch nylon to provide maximum comfort with minimum coverage.
You can’t beat them for
sports, for travel, for comfort in any pursuit. Your
At times it’s a bit overdone, but nevertheless a fairly good movie. Peter Sellers as the bumbling shop steward is definitely the main attraction and it’s no wonder- he upstages the rest of the cast in every scene in which he appears. Ian Carmichael and Liz Fraser support as ably as anyone can in a British comedy, which is better than in any American movie. The movie ends not too happily for many of the people involved, but that’s satire for you. Don’t miss this Movie of the Week.
At the Notre Dame Roman-circus arena (Washington Hall) the Christians will not be fed to the lions. On the contrary, the lions will be admonished to keep their roar down to a minimum and to Please Don’t Eat the Daisies. After the disastrous showing of The Last Voyage last week, I doubt anybody can get to appreciate Doris Day and David Niven at what is possibly their very best in comedy roles. A little consideration can go a long way if you don’t hang it up in Washington Hall’s foyer. See you.
Tony Wong
SCHOLASTIC STAFF
. . . the features staff of the
SCHOLASTIC has positions open for interested freshman and sophomores. All interested should leave their name and address in the
office of the SCHOLASTIC as soon as possible.
McDondd Stucfios
“The Finest in Portraits”
129 N. MAIN Temporary location
DR. N. HZDALE
OPTOMETRIST
CONTACT LENSES Inquiries Invited
EYES EXAMINED
GLASSES FITTED OPTICAL REPAIRS
1 to 24-Hour Service 305 S. Michigan	AT 7-5477
Need a Chest, Bookcase or Record Cabinet?
BUY THEM UNPAINTH)! Save ’A or more
Don't forget we are on Student Discount Card!
Odorless, fast drying paint $3.49 gaL Less Student Discount
WILLIAM'S
312 S. Michigan St.
NOW
you CAN
GET
EDITIONS IN ENGLISH of Latin, Greek, and Modern Foreign Language High School and College texts.
We can supply the translations and dictionaries and modern language phonograph records of all publishers at lowest prices!
Write for Free Catalog
THE TRANSLATION PUBLISHING C0.f INC. tr Inriog Hou	Naw Yarit 3, M. Y.
October 7, 1960
J
c
8,000 Management Opportunities!
That’s right. There will be 8,000 supervisory jobs filled from within the Western Electric Company by college graduates in just the next ten years! How come? Because there’s the kind of upward movement at Western Electric that spells executive opportunity. Young men in engineering and other professional work can choose between two paths of advancement-one within their own technical field and one within over-all management.
Your progress up-the-ladder to executive positions will be aided by a number of special programs. The annual company-wide personnel survey helps select management prospects. This ties in with planned rotational development, including transfers between Bell Companies and experience in a wide variety of fields. Western Electric maintains its own fulltime graduate engineering training program, seven formal management courses, and a tuition refund plan for college study.
After joining Western Electric, you’ll be planning production of a steady stream of
communications products—electronic switching, carrier, microwave and missile guidance systems and components such as transistors, diodes, ferrites, etc. Every day, engineers at our manufacturing plants are working to bring new developments of our associates at Bell Telephone Laboratories into practical reality. In short, “the sky’s your limit” at Western Electric.
Opportunities exist for electrical, mechanical, industrial, civil and chemical engineers, as well as physical science, liberal arts, and business majors. For more information, get your copy of Consider a Career at Western Electric from your Placement Officer. Or write College Relations, Room 6106, Western Electric Company, 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y. Be sure to arrange for a Western Electric interview when the Bell System team visits your campus.
Principal manufacturing locations at Chicago, III.; Keamy, N. J.; Baltimore, Md.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Allentown and Laureldale, Pa.; Winston-Salem, N. C.; Buffalo, N. Y.; North Andover, Mass.; Omaha, Neb.; Kansas City, Mo.; Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City, Okla. Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N. J. Teletype Corporation, Skokie, III., and Little Rock, Ark. Also Western Electric distribution centers in 32 cities and installation headquarters in 16 cities. General headquarters: 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.
The Scholastic
HOPEFUL KUHARICHMEN BATTLE TAR HEELS
Hosts Seek First Win In Eleven-Game Series
J	by BILL CARY
Tomorrow afternoon on the Chapel Hill gridiron, the 1960 Notre Dame football team will face a crucial “moment of truth.” Behind them is a record which says that they have defeated California - and have been annihilated by Purdue. ™The Irish are at the crossroads of the 1960 season. However, the record also shows that their opponent and host tomorrow, the North Carolina Tar Heels, have been unable to attain a victory in ten previous encounters with the Irish. , Last year the Irish won at South Bend, 28-8. Kick-off time is 2 p.m.
Young coach. North Carolina, coached by personable Jim Hickey, has yet to taste victory in this young 1960 campaign. Following an opening game 3-0 loss to arch-rival North Carolina State, the Tar Heels showed some improvement in bowing to Miami of Florida, a future Notre Dame opponent, last Fri-| day night, 29-12. Thus this game is also a big one for the Tar Heels; indicative of this is the fact that the game is part of Homecoming Week-end festivities for the Carolina students.
S’ North Carolina boasts an authentic All-American prospect in center and line-backer Rip Hawkins. The 6-2, 220-pound senior- pivot man was selected on
SCARPinO CHANGES PACE TO AVOID PURDUE DEFENDER
Notre Dome halfback Bob Scarpitto tries to find an opening in the Boilermaker defense but end Manzie Winters (86) and tackle Pat Russ (75) have different ideas.
■October 7, 1960
the All-Atlantic Coast team as a junior in 1959. Hawkins is rated by the North Carolina coaches as a bone-rattling tackler and smashing blocker. Rip is also cocaptain of the Tar Heels. He and Irish captain Myron Pottios should make things lively in the game tomorrow. Both are great competitors and will inspire their respective squads to greater efforts.
The Tar Heels are well stocked with 22 returning lettermen. Chief among these besides Hawkins are quarterback Ray Farris, halfbacks Gib Carson and Moyer Smith, fullback Bob Elliott and ends John Schroeder and John Runco. The North Carolina lineup includes seven of those who started against Duke last year, a game in which the Tar Heels waltzed to a 50-0 win.
On offense, North Carolina’s hopes rest on the fine passing of Junior Farris and the running of Carson, Smith and Elliott. North Carolina’s two touchdowns last week came on passes from Farris to Runco (33 yards) and to Skip Clement (four- yards). Another drive fizzled on the Miami two-yard line. In the North Carolina State game, Carson and Elliott were the leading TaiHeel rushers with total gains of 43 and 33 yards, respectively. In both games the Tar Heels gained more yardage than their opponents. This indicates that the North Carolinians are capable of moving the football.
The defense is built around Hawkins. North Carolina State was held to 137 yards for the entire game. Miami was
RAY FARRIS
Junior Tar Heel thrower
able to gain only 86 yards rushing but was able to puncture the Tar Heels for 164 yards "via the air lanes. Thus the Irish and Tar Heels are similar in that both teams have fairly rigid ground defenses but are vulnerable to a passing • attack.
Inconsistent attack. Both teams have been plagued by inconsistency in earlier games. Strange as it may seem, the Irish gained as much yardage as the Purdue Boilermakers in last week’s game. They had one more first down than Purdue. So why was there a high score? The Irish simply made too many mistakes and were unable to mount a consistent attack. Noi-th Carolina has had the same trouble in theii- two losses. The victor tomorrow will be the team that is able to correct these flaws. The victor will also be the team which is able to find consistency on attack along with elimination of defensive shortcomings.
The Irish will be making their first appearance in Chapel Hill since 1955 when Paul Hornung led the Irish to a 27-7 win. The last three games have been played at Notre Dame with the Irish winning in 1956, 21-14. No game was played in 1957. The Irish won a thriller in 1958, 34-24. All remember the 1959 game when the young Irish walloped North Carolina, 28-8.
In the ten games the two teams have played thus far, the 1958 contest ranks as the closest. In this game, the Irish edged out a 34-24 victory. The Notre Dame-North Carolina series opened in 1949 when the Irish smothered the Tar Heels, 42-6. 1957 is the only year that the two teams haven't met since then.
29
ODDS and ENDS
Considering the fact that Iowa’s Hawkeyes defeated Northwestern, 42-0, last Saturday, and the Wildcats had trounced the Oklahoma Sooners a week before by a score of 19-3 — well, one might wonder if the fabled Sooner teams of the 50’s were really that good. . . .
The American League pennant winning New York Yankees won their last 15 games. Too bad they didn’t begin the streak a little earlier — might have been easier on ol’ Casey’s coronary. . . .
Apparently, the Baltimore Colts aren’t the old ballclub they’re supposed to be. Pre-season reports had the Colts falling off due to old age. But it looks like the “washed-up” veterans held their own against the Bears last week end. . . .
What’s happened to the Southern California fearsome eleven this year? On paper they look unbeatable and yet they’ve lost three straight. Couldn’t be that they have one of those Hollywood press agents out there, could it? . . .
Notre Dame’s opponent tomorrow, North Carolina, has a distinct cheer which the Irish eleven will probably be hearing throughout the afternoon . . . “I’m a Tar Heel bom, I’m a Tar Heel bred, and when I die, I’m a Tar Heel dead.”
By the way, the statistics show that only three field goals have been booted against the Carolina footballers since 1940. . . .
Talk about brotherhood week! Look at Saturday’s game against Purdue; Irish team members Pottios, Traver, Sefcik, Rascher, Caito, Hoerster and Minik had played against at least one member of the Boilermaker squad in high school also. . . .
Mike Stock, Northwestern’s fullback with the talented toe, is now in his second year of co-captaincy with the Wildcats from Evanston. . . .
Irish Sailors Prepare For Bloomington Test
Last week end the Notre Dame sailing team traveled to Detroit for the Wayne State invitational regatta. Fickle winds and the strong current of the Detroit River made for slow racing Saturday. Sunday, the breeze freshened, providing spedacular sailing hut many breakdowns.
J. Day Kuras and Ed Bukowski skippered, Frank Courrages crewed and John “Plebe” Zusi did both in the course of the regatta.
Wayne came out on top followed by Michigan State and Ohio State. Notre Dame placed sixth, tied with Oberlin. Other participants were: Detroit Institute of Technology, Wooster, University of Detroit, Ohio Wesleyan, Xavier and Wisconsin.
Next week Notre Dame competes at Indiana University for the Hoosier Championships.
30
Gentempo, Hogan and Palihnich Head List Of Veteran Returnees on Irish Baseball Nine
“I’m not one of those coaches who makes a habit of singing the blues — we should have a pretty fair season.” These were the words of Irish baseball mentor C. J. “Jake” Kline, now in his twenty-seventh season as head coach at Notre Dame, as he surveyed the fall practice scene.
Kline is in the habit of having good seasons, having won 326, lost 215, and tied three during his tenure as coach, for a percentage of .603.
In addition, the Irish nine has won
JAKE KLINE
Veteran baseball mentor
a berth in the NCAA District Four tourney for five consecutive years. They were beaten in district play last season by Minnesota’s Gophers, who went on to win the College World Series in Omaha.
In this fall’s practice session, which will run until the end of October, the biggest problem for Kline is to find a first baseman to replace the graduated John Carretta. Other regulars lost through graduation included right fielder Frank Finnegan and the 1960 Captain, Ed Wojcik, a catcher. Eleven monogram winners return, however.
In his search for a first baseman, Kline has converted catcher Jerry McNamara to play that spot, and he now appears to have the inside track. Other prospects at first include Senior Dick O’Leary, and Junior Jim Krauser.
The rest of the infield is well set, with Captain Jack Gentempo returning at second, football halfback Bob Scarpitto at short, and veteran Dan Hagan at third.
Hagan hit .306 last season while leading the team in doubles with nine, and slamming four homers. He also had 24 RBI’s.
Scarpitto hit .283, and had three hom
ers and 13 runs-batted-in. Gentempo, who played short as a sophomore, led the team in hitting last season with a .383 mark. As leadoff man, Gentempo led the squad in hits (36) and runs scored (33).
Returning in the outfield will be cen- " ter fielder Bill Brutvan, a junior who hit .299 last season. Brutvan smashed a three-run homer against Minnesota in the NCAA tournament.
If O’Leary, who hit .309 and drove in eight runs last season, is not needed at first base, he too will be available for outfield duty.
Senior Chuck Lennon, who hit .283 and drove in six runs last season, should win one of the starting outfield posts. If O’Leary does not patrol the outfield, Sophomore Jim Stouffer will probably become the third starter.
The mound corps returns almost intact, with a one-two punch in Nick Pa-lihnich and Jack Mitchell, who posted a 10-4 record between them last season. Palihnich won six and lost two, finishing with a 3.08 ERA. Palihnich worked 67 innings, allowing 59 hits and 13 walks, and fanning 55.	£
Mitchell had a brilliant 0.71 earned-run average, one of the best in college baseball. He won foui’ and lost two, while pitching 50 and two-thirds innings.
Providing bench strength this year will be another football halfback, George Sefcik, who will be a utility infielder. Jim Woolwine, Dave Cooper, Jack McCollough, John Matthews and Ty Demetrio are also capable infield prospects.
Reserve outfielders will be John Tar- ® nowski, Tom Twardowski and Dave Hanson. Bolstering the pitching staff will be Jim Fitzpatrick, Paul Petitclair, and two top sophomores, Bill Ryan and Mickey Walker.
JACK GENTEMPO
Captains 1961 diamondmen
The Scholastic
GRIDIRON PERSONALITIES
The ecstatic young lady pictured above waving her white hankie is none other than the loyal St. Mary’s girl. She is seen at each home game armed with said hankie which she proceeds to wave deliriously after a certain Irish cheer.
TIME OUT
Tomorrow’s football game at Chapel Hill, North Carolina is one of great importance to Notre Dame followers. Not that the host Tar Heel team is a powerhouse—it isn’t. But if there is a game that is going to “make or break” Notre Dame’s 1960 season, it is this third one, Notre Dame vs. North Carolina. First, consider the Green’s two performances thus far this season. In neither game were the Irish a top-flight ballclub, and especially in the Purdue game, inconsistency and errors were the rule, not the exception. The result: one victory and one defeat. We start over tomorrow.
Can Notre Dame make the comeback? That is the basic question. If the Irish eleven does climb back to the top, then Coach Kuharich will have found the answer—eleven men who can jell as a unit. Football games cannot be won with frequent shifts in playing personnel. The team must be a unit in which the players work together, each realizing the others’ strengths and weaknesses. Eleven heads are better than one or two.
Interhall Football Play • Initiates Fall Program
Notre Dame’s interhall football program will start Sunday, October 15 at Cartier Field. Approximately 400 students will compete for starting positions on the 13 participating teams.
The 1959 season saw Dillon Hall defeat Breen Phillips 22-0 for the EastWest Championship. In the East B-P W finished first, followed by Zahm, Farley, Keenan, Cavanaugh, Stanford and St. Edward’s. In the West it was Dillon, Alumni, Howard, Off-Campus, Morrissey and Walsh. Dillon Hall has won the last two East-West Championships.
Vince Dooley, the assistant director of Interhall Athletics, explained that under the new system each class will be in its own league with only interclass games to be played. The winners of each class will then have a playoff for 9 the school championship. This will insure a greater feeling of interhall competition. This year, however, due to the paucity of upperclass teams, there will only be two leagues. The Freshman section will consist of B-P, Stanford, Keenan, Farley and Cavanaugh. The Sophomore section will consist of Zahm, Lyons, Morrissey, St. Edward’s and Howard. Dillon, Alumni, and Off-Campus will be included in the Sophomore league.
W October 7, 1960
A SAD DEPARTURE
Two years ago, halfback Red Mack began his football career at Notre Dame. Prognosticators stated that Red was certain All-American material. And surely he was that. When he ran, he ran hard. With head lowered and legs digging hard, Number 23 would dai-t through the opposing line with phenomenal speed. On defense, he was a vicious tackler and steady pass defender. Mack was a leader—always first down the field after a touchdown, always last to say that he was hurt when he was. Notre Dame’s “Road Runner” was a dedicated football player.
The 1959 season began without Number 23 in the lineup. Mack had twisted his right knee and was forced to stay out until the California game. Even then and for the remainder of the season, he played on what Coach Joe Kuharich termed “sheer courage.” He just didn’t have enough strength in his leg to cut sharply and change directions as he had done the year before. In the spring, Red’s knee was operated on and, slowly but surely, he was on the road to recovery.
This fall, the pi-actice sessions were encouraging for Red. Each day, his right leg appeared able to absorb more contact and punishment. Each day, he began to look more like the Red Mack of old. Look magazine said that 1960 was the year for Mack. Notre Dame followers felt the same. And Red probably thought so himself.
His presence in the lineup in the California game just seemed to give the squad a boost. And in the Purdue game, it was clear to see that his time for greatness had arrived. But fate struck and never to a less-deserving man. In the latter part of the first half, Red was carried off the field on a stretcher— this time he had torn the ligaments in his left knee.
The second half began and Mack was noticeably absent. Soon afterwards, he limped onto the turf of Notre Dame Stadium. This time, he wasn’t dressed in jersey Number 23 and he walked, supported by crutches. Red Mack was given a standing ovation. He certainly deserved it!
EMBARRASSMENT
There were many moments of embarrassment during last Saturday’s game in Notre Dame Stadium. For a while there, it appeared that it would be the Irish players who would leave the field with the “reddest faces.” But there’s no need to be embarrassed when you’ve performed the best that you can. No one will deny that the players gave everything they had—it was just one of those afternoons.
But there is a group that should be embarrassed. It is a “certain” part of the student body that booed George Haffner when he was leaving the game in the second quarter. Funny, that these self-styled critics think they know more football than Mr. Haffner or Coach Kuharich and yet are not playing. George Haffner gave Notre Dame 100 percent effort. Can’t these boys do the same?—J.K.
n
Irish Cagers Begin Practice; Six Lettermen Provide Depth
by TOM WALSH
The Notre Dame Fieldhouse will be a busy place on Monday, October 17, as the 1960-61 Notre Dame basketball team begins practice for the coming campaign. Head coach Johnny Jordan will have 16 candidates beginning practice this season.
Six lettermen return from last year’s quintet which posted a 17-9 record. These lettermen provide Jordan and his assistant Jim Gibbons with a considerable amount of experienced talent to work with. Missing from the roster this year will be Mickey Bekelja, Mike Graney, Bob Bradtke, Don McGann and Emmett McCarthy.
Returning lettermen will be Capt. Bill Crosby, John Dearie, Eddie Schnurr, John Tully, Bill Noonan and Armand Reo. Dearie, third high scorer last year, and Tully will be fighting it out to see who will handle the post this year, with stiff competition from Junior Carl Roessler and 6'8" Sophomore Bill Kurz. Crosby and Reo are both experienced forwards, and will be supported by Sophs John Andreoli and Ed Malloy. Field general Schnurr, along with Noonan, are the two monogram guards returning. They will work with Ray Vales and Soph John Matthews.
The first few weeks of practice will be limited to half court offensive and defensive scrimmages primarily, and will concentrate on getting the hoopsters into the high state of condition they will need if they are to be successful against this year’s opponents.
As usual, the Irish have a very tough schedule to face, a schedule liberally sprinkled with regional and national powers. This year’s squad travels coast-to-coast, playing USC and UCLA in Los Angeles, and St. Johns in Brooklyn. December is a very big month, pitting the Irish against such powerhouses as Evansville, (NCAA small college champions), Kentucky, USC, UCLA, Indiana, Purdue, Illinois and Northwestern. Other tough teams on the schedule are North Carolina, Detroit, MSU, Bradley and St. Louis. Evansville, Bowling Green and MSU are newcomers to the home schedule this year, and St. Louis returns to the list. Portland also will go against the Irish in the Fieldhouse this year.
Johnny Jordan is heading into his tenth year as head man for the Irish hoopsters, while Assistant Coach Jim Gibbons is entering his fifth year in his position. Both men were former basketball players at Notre Dame.
Although the schedule is admittedly tough, especially during the first month, both coaches feel that they have enough experienced men returning to handle the challenge.
A noticeable absentee in the practice sessions has been Rog Strickland who did not return to school this fall.
32
tt
THESE SENIOR FooTBALL STARS, BOTH EARLIER PLAGUED BY INJURIES, ARE EXPECTED To SPARK THIS YEARS IRISH
America ik Hopeful.
team CAPTAIN AND	.
PROSPECTIVE ALL-AMERICAN !
Although injured, Mack still deserves recognition.
Tom Grace Sets Pace In University Tourney
Tom Grace leads at the halfway point of the annual University Open golf tournament with a score of 140, two-under-par on the Burke Memorial links. The final 36 holes of the tournament will be played tomorrow and Sunday.
Grace, a junior letterman, shot an even-par 72 last Sunday which added to his opening round of 69 in giving him a total of 141. Grace, winner of the Open in his freshman year, toured the front nine in 35 strokes and finished his consistent round with a 36 on the back side.
First-round leader Terry Kitch soared to a 76 after his opening three-under-par 68 round. Kitch, a sophomore, shot a 40 on the par 36 front nine and posted a 36 on the finishing nine.
The scores were considerably higher on the second day than on the opening day as no sub-par rounds were recorded.
Junior* Bruce Odlaug followed Grace with a one-over-par 72. Phil Schuster, a senior letterman, posted a 73, including a 34 on the back side. Another monogram winner, Jim Stahl, shot a 76.
While there were no sub-par rounds, Rev. George L. Holderith, coach of the golf team, was encouraged by the fact that 25 men posted scores under 80.
Father Holderith, coach of the team since 1933, thinks next spring’s squad should add to the impressive .745 all-time winning percentage of the Irish.
A Good Broken FIELD RUNNER * AND
”ANOTHER
Six lettermen will return, including Captain Ray Patak, Grace, Odlaug, Schuster, Stahl and Eddie Schnurr. Othei* returning linksmen are Seniors Jim Kenny, Jack Palumbo, and Bill Wetzel; and Juniors Russ Beaupre, Al Highducheck and Craig Vollhaber.
Added to this list is a fine crop of sophomores. The top five sophomores at the halfway point of the Open are Kitch, Peter Bisconti, Bob Farrell, Larry Griffen and Jack Vandervalle.
Father Holderith hopes that at least one of these men comes close to matching the performances of past Notre Dame golf greats. Win Day, 1936 captain, reached the quarterfinals of the 1934 National Amateur. Tom Veech, 1951 captain, equaled Day’s performance in the 1950 National Amateur. Tom Sheedan, two-time Irish captain, set a new qualifying record in winning medalist honors in the 1939 National Amateur, and Tom Matey, the 1953 captain, went to the semi-finals of the 1951 NCAA tournament. Another former Irish golfer is Bill Casper, Jr., one of the current professional stars.
ATTENTION WRESTLERS
There will be a meeting with Coach Tom Fallon in Room 1 of the Rockne Memorial Gym on Tuesday, October 18, 1960. The Varsity will meet at 7 p.m. Freshman candidates will meet at 8 p.m.
The Scholastic
Your Headquarters For
Corduroy Suits $29.95
SPORTCOATS .. $19.95
Come in and get your
Varsity Town
BLUE BOOK
FREE
A 170-page, “vest pocket/’ fact filled encyclopedia of football schedules, scores, rules, penalties, etc. It also contains champs and records of all sports, style and dress information.
October 7, 1960
CART CALLS 'EM
Tonight
Southern California over Georgia
Tomorrow
Penn State over Army Navy over SMU Mississippi over Vanderbilt Texas over Oklahoma Washington over Stanford Kansas over Iowa State Oregon State over Indiana Marquette over Boston College Texas Christian over Texas Tech Minnesota over Northwestern Georgia Tech over LSU Syracuse over Holy Cross Missouri over Air Force Purdue over Wisconsin Yale over Columbia Pitt over Miami (Fla.) Michigan over Duke Princeton over Penn Arkansas over Baylor Notre Dame over North Carolina Colorado over Arizona Auburn over Chattanooga
Game of the Week
Michigan State over Iowa
Upset of the Week
Ohio State over Illinois
Last Week’s Results
18 right, six wrong, one tie 75 per cent
KEGLERS' KORNER
This week marked the beginning of another year for the Kampus Keglers of Notre Dame. With more interest expressed than ever before, over 60 teams will participate in six all-student leagues. All those still interested in bowling with the Keglers are asked to please appear- at the bowling lanes before 6:30 this evening in order to sign up.
The best of last year’s bowlers, led by Dan Halloran, a senior English major from Phoenix, Arizona, have been selected to represent Notre Dame in the Midwestern Intercollegiate Bowling Conference. The Irish did well in the MIBC last year, finishing second to DePaul of Chicago. Other teams in the MIBC are Loyola, St. Joseph’s and Valparaiso. Besides the regularly scheduled matches with the above teams, the ND bowlers will also meet several Big Ten schools on a nonleague basis. Halloran’s teammates include Ted Nekic, Bill Lieber, Mike Bentley, Don Dvorak, Tom Schroe-dei- and Chuck LeRose. Coach of the team is Jean “Speed” Sheehan, noted bowling instructor from Chicago.
Bob Miller
CORDUROY CONVERTIBLE
A wardrobe-in-itself! Naturalshouldered jacket is lined in an Antique Print with matching breast-pocket handkerchief; has center vent, hacking pockets. Antique crested metal buttons. Trim, tapered Post-Grad slacks. Vest reverses to match jacket lining and handkerchief. Knockout colors; at the best campus shops.
3 piece Convertible .... $3933 Reversible vest......... 5.95
Post-Grad Slacks........	635
For colorful 17" x 22" Ski-Club poster— send 25c to H-I-S, Dept CA, 230 Fifth Ave., N.Y. 1.
For set of 6 posters (6 different sports) send $1.50.
33
Repercussions
(Continued from page 6)
SOCIETY
AND MR. SMITH Editor:
Last week’s back page was very impressive in its argument and reflects the considerable skill of its author. Yet, as college students seeking truth I feel we should be wary of such presentations lest our criterion of truth becomes the ability of the presentator instead of the subject matter itself.
The role of the student as portrayed by the author fits an ideal society where all segments of that society fulfill their responsibilities with appropriate wisdom and dedication. Yet, I’m sure that it will be agreed that some of the state governments of the nation have to a large degree been deficient in the fulfillment of one of their most important moral and constitutional responsibilities: i.e., the impartial administration of the benefits and responsibilities of government. At the same time many of these governments have vehemently expressed their dedication to a continuance of this situation. Surely, this is not the ideal society referred to by Mr. Smith.
When some segment of society refuses to perform its responsibilities it becomes the duty of other segments, to varying degrees, to reestablish the balance. In this situation the student’s responsibilities increase. The college student with from 14 to 17 years of education behind him, though lacking experience, to my mind is sufficiently responsible to be able to formulate principles by which the various segments of society should act. It is in the realm of principles that the student can contribute to the correction of faults in his society. But how is he to do this?
The student occupies an enviable position. He is in general free from the political and economic restrictions that so often impede action by other segments of society. Therefore, he has not only the opportunity but the duty of presenting open and direct opposition to the enemies of society in order to reeducate and rededicate the people to the principles of our society.
Percy A. Pierre 203 Sorin Hall (Continued on page 37)
Classified Advertising
Part Time Help Wanted, evenings and Saturday work. Car necessary. Call CE 2-4596, E. W. Hoelscher.
Back Page
(Continued from page 38) government” or “Washington” can lead to its identification as an autonomous, potent entity. (A striking parallel of the social workers’ depiction of “environment.”) To reiterate then: A certain segment of our political population seems to be courting the loss of its functional political identity. For such a shifting of responsibility contains the possibility of the loss of the right to political action. And the unaware voter may someday become a cipher in a filing cabinet. For the individual who has denied or abrogated his responsibility loses his identity—and has a new one imposed.
34
_________________________________H
JEWELERS TO NOTRE DAME FACULTY AND STUDENTS FOR OVER 38 YEARS.
Gifts Wrapped and Mailed To All Parts of the World BLOCK BROS.
Cor. Mirh. at Wash, in Downtown So. Bend
SIR WALTER RALEIGH	,
Protective Pouch Keeps Tobacco
This protective aluminum foil pouch keeps famous, mild Sir Walter Raleigh 44% fresher than old-fashioned tin cans. The sturdy pouch is triple laminated. Carries flat. Sir Walter Raleigh is choice Kentucky hurley— extra aged! Try it.
SMELLS GRAND — PACKS RIGHT! SMOKES SWEET — CAN’T BITE!
BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION 33g£yy THE MARK OF QUALITY IN TOBACCO PRODUCTS
J)
The Scholastic J
Appoint New Director For Liturgy Program
Rev. Daniel J. Sullivan, C.S.C., was recently appointed program director of the University of Notre Dame’s Liturgy Program. Named executive secretary of the summer graduate program in litur-gical studies was Rev. William Mc-I V Auliffe, C.S.C., director of the Moreau Seminary Choir. Their appointments, along with the creation of a policy committee, were announced by Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C., head of the department of theology which administers the Liturgy Program.
Father Sullivan, who was previously engaged in Scriptural research in the I Holy Land, succeeds the late Rev. Michael Mathis, C.S.C., founder- and di-rector of the program which has been ^described as the academic center of the liturgical movement in the United States. Rev. George Schidel had served as acting director since Father Mathis’ death last March. Approximately 40 persons have received master’s degrees in liturgy since the program was inaugurated in 1947, and 97 students were enrolled in the Liturgy Program during the 1960 summer session.
Serving with Fathers Pelton, Sullivan, I Wand McAuliffe on the newly created policy committee will be six other li-turgists and theologians. They are Rev. Thomas Barrosse, C.S.C., professor of Sacred Scripture at Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C.; Rev. Godfrey Diek-mann, O.S.B., editor of Worship, Colleg-ville, Minn.; Dr. Cornelius Bouman, Catholic University of Holland; Rev. William Leonard, S.J., of Boston . College, executive secretary of the Liturgi-) Weal Conference; and Revs. Edward O’Connor, C.S.C. and John Dunne, C.S.C., of the Notre Dame theology department.
A native of Mineral, Ill., Father Sullivan was graduated from Notre Dame in 1953. He was ordained in Rome in 1956 and received his licentiate in sacred theology from the Gregorian University there the following year. His doctoral . A research in Sacred Scripture will take ' Whim to France and Gel-many as well as the Holy Land. He will maintain close liaison with liturgical authorities in Europe, many of whom have been members of the Liturgy Program faculty at Notre Dame.
THE POETS CHANCE
The American College Poetry Society is accepting original works ) 0 of students for publication in its anthology of outstanding college poetry. Contributions, to be postmarked no later than December 9, may not exceed 48 lines, nor may any individual submit more than five poems. Entries are to be sent to the American College Poetry Society, Box 24463, Los Angeles 24, California.
I ^October 7, 1960
FOR CORRESPONDENTS
Letters to the “Repercussions” column should be sent to Chas Rieck at 320 Walsh only; any other procedure will delay their receipt by the editor. All letters must be signed; signatures to letters will be withheld from publication only in unusual circumstances. Please confine letters to 150 words or less.
Typewriter manuscripts for either the Escape column or the Back Page may also be submitted to this same address or to 309 Wal;h. It is requested that all articles for publication be typewritten 40 characters wide, if possible, to facilitate length estimation.
QUI EST------?
Nominations for Who’s Who selections for 1960-61 are now being accepted by the Who’s Who committee. Letters of nomination should give the nominee's name, campus address, scholastic average, and information as to how the nominee has contributed to his academic community through extra-curricular activities. Any senior or graduate student may be nominated; anyone may write a letter of nomination. Completed letters of nomination should be submitted to the Chairman of the committee, 127 Pangborn by October 24.
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Typewriter Paper
It’s easy to flick off your mistakes on Eaton’s Corrasable Bond. Make a pass with a pencil eraser and typing errors are gone—like magic—no error evidence left. Corrasable has an exceptional surface—erases without a trace. Once does it—there’s no need to
retype. Saves time; money, too. The perfect paper for perfection—erasable Corrasable.
Eaton's Corrasable Bond is available in light, medium, heavy weights and onion skin. In convenient 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. A Berkshire Typewriter Paper, backed by the famous Eaton name.
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND Made only by Eaton
EATON PAPER CORPORATION sE: PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS *«»»•
Time for Greatness
(Continued from page 19) burgh’s initiative and the research advances Notre Danie has recently made in the field of atomic energy, the federal government has appropriated almost three-fourths of the cost for a new $2.5 million Atomic Energy Research building on our campus. Construction is expected to begin a year from now, with the building being attached to the Nieuwland Science Hall and filling the area between O’Shaughnessy Hall and the present fieldhouse. The selection of Notre Dame as the site for this research laboratory is another tribute to the present and future greatness of the University.
An integral part of any great university is a good graduate school. Notre Dame now counts over 700 graduate students in its excellent, but limited postgraduate courses. The new library will undoubtedly provide a significant incentive to degree students desiring further education, and with this in mind the University has given high priority to the erection of graduate student residence halls. No definite information is available as to construction dates or size of the halls, but there will probably be two halls constructed just Noith of the new library on the site of Vetville within the next two or three years.
In order to accomplish the ends enumerated in the above discussion, it becomes readily apparent that large numbers of the married students’ residences in Vetville will be tom down to make room for the new construction. Plans are now on the drawing boards for multiresidence units to replace the present facilities. The location of the new units, as well as their size, shape, and numbers remain undetermined. It is felt that these details will be made available shortly, and a community of modem, comfortable, and spacious married student residences will be established.
The preceding has considered expansion which is definite in nature, but somewhat general in detail. Moving into the more distant future, even the nature of the expansion becomes more general. The ten-year development program calls for additions to many of the existing academic buildings such as Commerce and Engineering. Also proposed are a circular fieldhouse to be located across the road east of the stadium and a large multi-purpose auditorium between the Moms Inn and the Stadium. A group of academic buildings, including a Social Science Hall, are expected to rise in front of the new library on the present site of Cartier Field. New athletic fields will be laid out in proximity to the proposed location of the new fieldhouse. Toward the end of the ten-year development program other buildings will be constructed as needed, such as a faculty office building, a priests’ faculty hall, three or four undergraduate halls, and in the more distant future, possibly a new administration building around the golden dome.
There is no indication that the present
size of the undergraduate student body will be increased by any marked degree, but it is hoped that a great increase in the level of academic excellence will be achieved. Capital investment in buildings is only one of the goals of the ten-year development program for Notre Dame. Considered along with the endowment for increased faculty salaries, research contributions, and student aid it stands as an integral part of a program designed to make Notre Dame recognized as the leading Catholic educational institution in the world.
Jack Cahalan and Jim Wysocki
BIG DEAL!
paperbMate CAPRI MARK III
WASiJK
NOW *1’5
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE on - the - campus
DON’T MISS THE NEW FALL T.V. SHOWS
•
Rent-A-T elevision
AS LOW AS 50c a DAY
Bradley's
606 N. Michigan CE 2-7211
36
The Scholastic Jj
SPECIAL STUDENT
DISCOUNTS
Open Dance Night ’till 8:30
Your Assurance of Satisfactory Fit
Repercussions
(Continued from page 34)
Editor:
Last week’s back page entitled “The Student in Society” deserves considerable criticism. The author, Mr. Michael Smith, is to be commended for his fine logic and intelligent composition. He must be severely reproved, however, for his gross misrepresentation of the truth.
Mr. Smith asserts that the proper function of a student qua student is “the pursuit of wisdom and practical skills.” He unrealistically concludes, therefore, that American students have no justification foi* engaging in socio-political activities.
The effect of his argument does two things: (1) it encourages continued complacency among Notre Dame students; (2) it provides a rational excuse for those who see the immorality which confronts them but have hesitated to act against it. Nevertheless, in spite of the effects the argument has on others I remain unconvinced and am, therefore, uninfluenced by it.
Any one among us must know that what is logically true may not in fact be true when applied to a real situation. I contend that the argument presented to us by Mr. Smith is wholly impractical, inadequate, and unsuitable for the situation as it exists in the United States today. It seems to me that we do not live in the ideal world of Mr. Smith’s where society is healthy, that is, where universal literacy and education are equated. I believe that America is not educated; and that, instead, it suffers from a grave sickness, racial prejudice — a disease of the mind.
People who suffer most directly from the ill-effects of this sickness, namely, the racial minorities, undergo a real awakening. To my way of thinking,
they acquire a certain depth in understanding the world we live in; they develop in some respect greatei- maturity than those who have never experienced this kind of hardship. Many students of race minorities, I believe, have sufficient maturity to actively work against the injustices which befall them. And certainly others, not of minorities, should have enough humanity in them to sympathize with the down-trodden.
Mr. Smith has not clearly seen the nature of the question which he has attempted to resolve. As he apparently sees it, the question is: Whether a student, according to his proper function, may participate in socio-political activities? I believe that “the pursuit of wisdom and practical skills” never ends for man, and consequently man, young or old. may never stop being a student. Tf such is true, and who will deny that it is, then the question to be asked is: Whether youth, according to its proper function, may participate in sociopolitical affairs?
Obviously the answer to this last question is that some youth may participate and others may not, for justified activity of this kind depends only upon the maturity of the “young” individual. It may be argued that maturity comes with education only. I do not disagree. But certainly no one should attempt to unrealistically define, as Mr. Smith has done, the role of youth in a society so subject to change as ours.
My plea to Mr. Smith and to others who share his views, for their sake as well as our own, is: (1) Do not work against the changing times; (2) Look for the good in this change; (3) Do all you possibly can to encourage the “young” people to respect and to regard the advice of more seasoned individuals.
—Jim Goodwin
Sorin Hall
FORMAL WEAR IS OUR BUSINESS, NOT A SIDELINE
•	No Deposit for ND Students
•	See our New Colored Coats
Free alterations for personal satisfaction. . . . Due to large demand please place orders early.
Complete formal attire and accessories to rent or sell
STUDY IN EUROPE
SPRING SEMESTER 1961 IN VIENNA
Spend pan of your sophomore or junior year of college in an established American program in Austria. You will live with Viennese families, attend English-taught credit courses at extensive IES facilities at the University of Vienna, study German, and visit eight European countries for field studies.
FULL PRICE: $1,425.00
Price includes ocean travel, tuition, study tours, room and meals — 5% months in Europe.
LOGAN’S
TUXEDO RENTAL
107 North Main, South Bend In the Oliver Hotel
SEND COUPON TODAY FOR FREE BROCHURE
APPLICATION DEADLINE; DECEMBER IS, IWO
INSTITUTE OF EUROPEAN STUDIES (A non-profit corporation)
BOX C • 35 EAST WACKER DRIVE CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
Gentlemen:
Please send complete details about the Spring Semester 1M1 program in Europe.
Name
Address
City	Zone State
College or University
October 7, 1960
37
Back
identity and, responsibility
The new-born baby might be said to have an imposed identity; the name inscribed on his ankle-bracelet. So, it seems more correct to say that this particular bundle of brand-new humanity has been identified. But with his first glimmerings of consciousness comes a fuzzy aweness that satisfaction depends somehow on the workings of an as-yet-indeterminate Outside. This is the first brush-stroke of the “ego-image,” that interior picture of the self which must be maintained to preserve psychic integrity.
SOCIETY’S GRASP
With time, the first discovery brings awareness of obligations of behavior which must be fulfilled to assure satisfaction. Thus are imposed certain simple responsibilities whose discharge will construct and modify society’s identification of the infant.
The ego-image and its self-identification is the product of the infant’s perceived success in fulfilling these. But note that this identity is not gained through passive compliance alone. For a central part of his self-realization is “interiorization/’assumption of the Outside’s dictates into his psyche, and acquisition of the ability to work in terms of them. This is the essence of learning, which might be considered here as an active relation of self to others. At this point appears the crucial sequence: that identification demands learning, which implies the ability to effect; and imposes responsibility for actions.
As an early example of the process, consider the nascent conscience. Our young human being learns “do” and “don’t.” And, under the stimulus of elicited parental approval, comes to see that he is held responsible for the “do’s” and “don’t’s” he does. Here emerges the composite of interior and exterior identifications expressed in his statement that “Johnny is a good boy.” He is learning.
And soon passes into that phase of life which might be called “studenthood.” Society identifies him as such during this period, and expects him to imbibe
its ways via established educational institutions. All in the interests of attaining maturity. But maturity is very demanding. For, sometime before the end of his studenthood, the individual is expected to have integrated his exterior and internal identifications, to have become fully aware of himself as the in-habitor of a “role.” While so doing, he finds that both society and his egoimage impose demands which must be fulfilled if he wants to call himself a matured—moral, social, economic, and political—person.
Thus it can be seen that the human individual has several spheres wherein he must function successfully—act or effect responsibly—to achieve and maintain the identification of the Johnny behind the name. Let me briefly consider the connections between identity and responsibility in each.
The first sphere, the moral, is intimately connected with all the others, since the conscience is born at the earliest moment of interiorization. Thus the identification of the individual as a moral fellow has ramifications in all fields of social interrelation; namely, the acceptance and discharge of responsibilities imposed by conscience. Shirking, or denying, these will damn him; sometimes here, sometime there. And with the latter, ultimate decree comes the loss of Man’s most essential identity as a son of God.
But there is a second relationship apparent in the moral sphere. Consider the statement, “There is no such thing as a bad boy;” and then, the activities of contemporary juvenile delinquents. Implicit in the quotation is a pet thesis of the do-gooder: That a boy is made the kind of man he is by his “environment.” The individual becomes a pawn of circumstance . . . But if one will accept my description of the active process of maturation, he can see the effect of assuming the environment as an absolute. A translation is made; responsibility is shifted. And then comes identification of the Outside, or some facet of it, as an autonomous agency. More of this in a moment.
Let me lump my second and third
phases of operation into a single term, “socio-economic.” This sphere has a set of behaviors, obligations, and satisfactions all its own. Take marriage for an inclusive example. Its particular satisfactions are, by common consent, consequent only to the assumption of its responsibilities. Socially, the husband must be a matured sort able to adjust to conjugal life and assume the responsibilities of the vocation of father-® hood. In addition, we must assume and discharge the economic duties of providing for a wife and children. Only by so doing can he fulfill his role, and deserve the interior and exterior identifications of himself as husband. If he should fail, the ex-husband might find himself with a new identity: A prison number earned for non-support.
To consider, finally, the political sphere and its interrelations between $ identity and responsibility. The voter expresses, via his ballot, his moral, social, economic, and political self-identifications. Which is right and proper, for our democracy endows the vote with agency in the construction of a way of life. But this construction is done via delegation of responsibility. Such an exigency is aggravated in an age of almost appalling complexity.
Vj
. . . THEN THE STATE
Which seems to have spawned a dangerous democratic attitude toward the political sphere. “Let the government do it; because only the government can get it done.” Behind this statement lies something more than a delegation of responsibility. Namely, a reassignment of responsibility. Perhaps since the 1930’s things have gotten too big too fast. Or, again, this may be a reflection C of the contemporary concern for Security.
In any event, the individual who thinks this way is in danger of losing his political identity. Consider the possibility apparent when reading my “crucial sequence” backwards. If identity maintained is the result of responsibility retained, shifting—not delegating now — responsibility onto “the
(Continued on page 34) a
38
The Scholastic
Batik Prints
in deep, rich colorings...
Batik Prints by Arrow capture the look of the hand-worked prints of Java. These deep muted tones provide your wardrobe with a new expression of color. Available also in a lady Arrow shirt; both styled in the authentic button-down collar. Precisely tailored in exact sleeve lengths.
Pullover for the man
Button-front for the woman
cum laude collection
by
-ARROW-
batik print classics
in Arrow and Lady Arrow
The richly colored prints of Java Batik offers a new change of pace in the traditional styling of men's and women's shirtings. Your wardrobe will be given a lift by the inherent good looks of this placket-front shirt from our Arrow Cum Laude collection.
^hiBERrs
IN THE SHOPPING CENTER —ON THE CAMPUS Also at 809-817 So. Michigan St., South Bend
5
The best tobacco makes the best smoke