SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
Entertainment reviews and previews and a Coming Distractions pull-out calendar of events. In depth sports coverage.
Read one for the Gipper! CampusWatch plus Week in Distortion and On Other Campus.
News articles and Campus Life stories that let you know what’s happening on campus. Remember: If you see news happening... you’re probably reading Scholastic!
If you don’t have time to write home every week, let us do it for you: Give your parents a subscription!
Please send years of Scholastic to:
Name:_________________________________________
A ddress:___________
City:State:ZIP code:
Enclosed is a check payable to Scholastic Magazine for $25.00 x years = $.
Please send this form with payment to: Business Manager
Scholastic Magazine
303 LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556
. Contents
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
2 Editor’s Notes
7 Campus Watch
21 On Other Campuses
4 Drier Straits
8 Looking for a Leprechaun
14 The Birth of Tradition
16 A Job Well Done
11 Out of Bounds
18 Oklahoma!
19 The Heidi Chronicles
Cover photo by Matt Cashore
FEBRUARY 25,1993
r
SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME'S STUDENT MAGAZINE
, -Vol.;l34. Ng.17 ; February 25,1993
Discs Quasi Semper Victurus ;Wve Quasi Gras Moriturus ,
'Founded 1867
EDITOR IN CHIEF
P^trida K; bo^e:-\
MANAGING EDITOR
MargaretS.Kenny
EXECUTIVE EDITOR ;
David J.Holsiriger
campus Life
Editor: Mollie: Mudd	-,-V
Assistant Michelle Crouch
NEWS'-'-':?'':"':’’
Editor: Marit.Mitchell IV
/SPORTS;;^ Editor dim Kuser • • •Assistant:^
.ENTERTAINMENT,; Editor X- Bradley Keck Assistant; Peg Ward,
DEPARTMENTS ^'ItorrKate'iWiltrouT
photography;
^Eciite'Ken'Qsggcrf;
. EStforfChns Blanford
GRAPHIC ARTS " ■M^ager?04keTrbst'-
Manager :;Chiri Wang'
.:7ApVERTISINGi:
//"l^nageriikareriBiley::;","
ptSTRJ^
Mmagef:;Mark;Fitzgerald'
On The Cover
Jason Conte’s cover story takes a look at the under-publicized Notre Dame baseball team. As he points out, the baseball team has been the most consistently successful Notre Dame sports team (with the exception of football) for the last five years. Take a look at this preview of a team which is bound for greatness in the upcoming season.
In This Issue
In Campus Life this week, writer Michelle Crouch delves into the selection process for
f
the Notre Dame mascot. If all candidates are considered equally, this year’s mascot (or mascots) may raise a .few eyebrows among those expecting a more “traditional” Leprechaun. Also this week, Shannon DeVema looks at the university’s alcohol policy; Readers will find weekly columns like Week in Distortion, Coming Distractions, CampusWatch and Out of Bounds in this issue as well.
David J. Holsinger
Executive Editor
Scholastic is published weekly throughout the school year except during examination and vacaiion periods of the University of Not re Dame, Notre Dame,IN,46556andprintedatThePapers,Inc.,Milford,IN46542. The subscription rale is $25.00/year and tack issues are available al $1.25 / copy. The opinions expressed in Scholastic are those of the authors and editors and do not necessarily represent the opinions of the entire editorial board of Scholastic or of the UniversityofNotre Dame,its administration, faculty or students. Editorials signed Scholastic represent the opinion of the majority of the executive editorial board. Manuscripts are welcome. All unsolicilied materials become the property of Scholastic.
Copyright 1993 Scholastic Magazine. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited.
Letters to Scholastic must be typed and include the writer's name, address and phone number. University students should include their year in school and college. Faculty members should include their department. All letters must be signed. Names will be withheld upon request in certain instances.
Schotasl ic reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or obscene by the laws of the United Stales. Scholastic also will edit for copyfitting, grammatical or spelling errors and Scholastic style. Because of space, Scholastic cannot print all letters received.
Address all correspondence to:
The Editor
Scholastic
LaFortune Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556

___ZZIZZ_ZZ_I2I_ZXZZZZ2ZZZ2ZZ_Z^i^^®
Parisi's
'Italian Dining With an Irish View'
Parisi's wishes the best of luck to Coach Pat Murphy and company for the 1993 spring campaingn. And we would love to see them return to the NCAA tournament and then move on to the college world series.
Parisi's, not far from the Notre Dame campus, is undoubtedly the best Italian Restaurant for any fighting Irish Sports fan.
1412 South Bend Avenue 232-4244
SUBWAY Has A Sandwich For ANY Size Appetite!!!
• SR 23 At Ironwood
US 31N (By North Village Mall)

*:*
Drier Straits
■
A new halls' council on alcohol once again focuses attention on the everevolving alcohol policy and its effect on the campus
by Shannon DeVerna
The door opens and you are assailed by the distinct and familiar stench of beer and the sound of blaring music. As you push your way into the mobbed room, someone hands you a beer. Or, if you are one of the unlucky ones, you have to maneuver your way through the crowd to the ice-filled barrel.
Throughout the night, the door stays closed and people standing by it make that sure no one goes into the hall with an open beer can. You feel comfortable knowing that you are safe from any disciplinary actions while you are in the confines of the room.
This is a typical scene for the many students who go to parties on campus. They are able to drink in their dorms, instead of being forced off campus, which entails. driving somewhere. Drinking on campus may prevent venturing into unsafe neighborhoods or getting into a car with a drunk driver. However, it also calls
for something on the books that expresses the university’s stance on alcohol use and abuse.
The university enacted its alcohol policy for this reason. What this policy intends to do, how it actually impacts the lives of students^ and how the members of the ad
ministration and the members of the student body feel about the alcohol policy are questions which are important to ask in order to find out if Notre Dame’s alcohol policy is relevant and if the people it directly effects support it.
Comparing the drinking habits of Notre Dame students and the drinking habits of students at colleges across the nation gives a perspective of where Notre Dame stands. The “Assessment of Student Alcohol and
Drug Attitudes and Usage” was a survey conducted by Dr. Christine G. Conway of Notre Dame students from the fall of 1987 to the spring of 1989. The Office of Alcohol andDrugEducation uses ittocompare drinking habits here with those of students elsewhere. The report “Alcohol and Drugs on
American College Campuses,” done by Dr. Cheryl A. Presley andDr. Philip W. Meilman from 1989 to 1991 focuses on the drinking habits of students on campuses nationwide. This is also a resource for the office.
According to the surveys, nationwide25.5 percent of students at four-year institutions drank alcohol once per week. At Notre Dame, an average of 60.5 percent of the student body drinks once per week. Statistics also show that 41% of students nationwide does not drink alcohol in an average week. AtNotre Dame, however, only an average of 14.25 percent of the student body abstains.
The answer to why Notre Dame’s numbers are so high may lie in the telling statistic that 20 to 23 percent of Notre Dame students reported they “sometimes,” “frequently,” or “always” drank alcohol “because it is a part of the Notre Dame tradition.” According to the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, this attitude must be changed if Notre Dame wishes to lower the number of social drinkers and alcohol abusers
on campus. For the office, this also means educating everyone on campus and employing an effective alcohol policy.
“Notre Dame’s alcohol policy strives to provide an environment where students who choose to drink do so in a responsible and respectful manner,” said Elizabeth Pawlicki,
director of residence life. “The university has chosen to recognize the privacy of an individual student’s room. Notre Dame allows for responsible action on the part of
individual student’s
allowsforresponsible part of
Ui jRrug;Ediicatiop}
students,” added Mark Pogue, director of the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education.
Pogue said the main reasons for having an alcohol policy are to promote the health and safety of students, to set rules before Congress enacts its own standards for colleges and to protect against criminal and civil liabilities. “Most importantly,” Pogue said, “we need an alcohol policy to enable the university to intervene in situations that it thinks are going to get out of control.”
“Alcohol abuse (problematic drinking) is ‘ the number one health-related concern of any college. Students are drinking, and sometimes drinking abusively, and bad things are happening. I think we need to address that,” Pogue said. S uch “bad things” include residence hall damage, sexual assault, fights, vandalism and drunk driving.
DrunkdrivingisalsoaconcemtoPawlicki, who does notconsider changingNotre Dame into a“dry” campus to be the solution. “With the decision to go dry, you are inheriting a wholebagof other problems,"saidPawlicki, “because if students want to go off campus to drink, they need a car to get to most places. Drinking and driving is the leading killer of
young people ages 15 to 24. College people fall into that age group,” said Pogue.
In the efforts to curb abusive drinking, the Office of Student Affairs has adopted its current alcohol policy, worked with student activities to provide students with non-alcoholic social activities and established the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education.
The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education was originally established through a grant, but Notre Dame has continued the service in an effort to display a commitment to addressing the problems of abusive drinking on campus, noted Pogue. The office serves as a source of information about alcohol and other drug issues for those who seek it. It also makes presentations to dorms, which address relevant topics such as the consequences of having a false identification. “The office also provides an opportunity for a free and confidential assessment of astudent’spersonal alcohol use,” saidPogue. “Students may be referred by their rectors or residence life, or they may come on their own.”
Recently formed and meeting this week for the first time, the Halls’ Council on Alcohol and Other Drug Issues has been designed as a link between the office and the hall councils, said Pogue. ‘This new committee will be comprised of representatives from each hall and will help keep the Office in touch with halls and students so it may better serve the campus,” he said.
“We’re never going to solve the problem [of alcohol abuse],” Pogue said. “What we need to do is to manage the problems that exist.” According to Pogue, the administration can do this with the cooperation of hall staffs which follow the guidelines in du Lac, and by confronting “out of bounds behavior.”
Though du Lac lays out basic guidelines for action, each hall staff and each rector confronts alcohol policy and problems in unique ways.
“The administration is doing what it can short of calling this [campus] a dry campus, and I don’t believe that would be the answer at all. I think teaching responsible drinking in our culture is a much better way to go and much more realistic than a dry campus,” said FatherStephenNewton.rectorofSorinHall. “A dry campus response [to alcohol abuse]
moves the problems related to underage and problematic drinking elsewhere,” he said. According to Pawlicki, this increases the occurrence of drinking and driving.
Because students are forced to drink only behind closed doors, they are put in a situation of hiding their actions, according to Fr. Newton. He advocates a more open approach to drinking and an increased integration of learning about alcohol into the “educational package” at Notre Dame. “This way problems can be spotted quickly and clearly and hall staff can then intervene,” he added.
Father William Seetch, rector of Flanner Hall, said, “I think there is a value in learning to drink socially, but at the same time, I strongly advocate that there be a chemical free section for those who do not wish to drink.”
“Despite the fact that this is the largest dorm on the campus, when I walk around the hall on Friday and Saturday night, things are really under control,” said Seetch. One of the elements of control Seetch points to is that residents must first clear any gatherings
iispohsilO
? problems ^
with their RA’s. This lets the RA’s know what is going on and gives the students a list of formal expectations. For instance, at the party there must be enough room for people to move around, there must be an alternative
FEBRUARY 25,/a,
beverage to alcohol, and there must be someone outside the door at all times to control the number of people and to make sure no open alcohol containers are brought into the hall. .
Seetch said that this communication between staff and students helps relations and makes the hall staff aware of what is going on, so they may break up aparty if it gets too raucous.
Not all dorms, however, have had such success with their policies concerning alcohol use and abuse. Only last semester, two
halls had to enact stringent disciplinary measures because of alcohol related problems at their SYRs.
Siegfried Hall’s formal was cancelled last semester because the hall staff and the rectress cited “violations of the community atmosphere” that occurred at their SYR. Most of these “violations” were alcohol related. “The residents shared the disappointment of the staff and had feelings of regret,” said Sister Maureen Minihane, C.S.C.
“The cancellation of the formal made people reflect on the quality of life at Siegfried and made the students realize that when someone
violates the community, everyone is affected,” Sister Maureen said. It seems the actions taken by the staff at Siegfried worked because, according to Sister Minihane, their most recent formal was “fantastic.”
Last semester, Pangbom Hall’s formal was cancelled after the hall staff witnessed “a wide abuse of alcohol” at their SYR, accordingtorectressCathieLohmuller. “Students at the dance violated many university and hall policies and displayed inappropriate and inconsiderate behavior,” Lohmuller said. According to her, the formal was
cancelled so that the hall staff would not send a conflicting message to the Pangbom residents concerning their previous dance.
“There’s kind of a funny paradox in our life saying often-times we have to do without things to understand how much they mean to us,” Lohmuller said. Lohmuller said the action was effective in providing a base for reflection and helped to make the formal this semester a success; “it was 100 percent better.”
Living in a residence hall at Notre Dame includes contact with alcohol use and abuse.
“Alcohol is infused in our culture and we have to be willing to address all the issues [it produces] and work with all the issues that interact with alcohol,” said Lohmuller. According to the “Assessment of S tudent Alcohol and Drug Attitudes and Usage,”32 to 35 percent of Notre Dame students reported they “sometimes,” “frequently,” or “always” drink “to get drank.” Also, 46 to 52 percent of students at Notre Dame reported that alcohol was “sometimes,” “frequently,” or “always” necessary to their social life.
Responses to these statistics are varied. “I
think the university should offer more social opportunities where alcohol would not necessarily play a part,” said Nikki Wellman, student body vice-president elect “Many of the problems stem from alack of alternatives on campus,” said Wellman. Wellman said she and student body president elect Frank Flynn intend to travel to other universities over spring break where they will observe programs which offer social alternatives to alcohol.
Pangbom freshman Monique DiGiorgio said, “Punishment without our input is treat
inguslikechildren. For my part, I would not respond to that kind of behavior. An intelligent and open talk with the Pangbom students would have been much more effective than a child-like punishment.” Another resident, who preferred anonymity, said, “I felt bitter towards the staff after the formal was taken away.”
In an example that shows that the university is notable to monitor everything, sophomore Max Murphy said that although he is under age, he does not have a problem transporting alcohol into his roomforparties. “Once you get into the building [with the alcohol],
you’re fine—some alcohol policies are just not enforced,” said Murphy.
Despite the many solutions that have been introduced to help curb alcohol use and abuse, a Keenan resident who preferred to remain anonymous said, “Maybe if drinking becameless socially accepted, like smoking cigarettes has on this campus, it would decrease —because right now it seems to be accepted by.the students and staff as an unfortunate yet inevitable part of the college experience.”	□
Cam pus Watch
INFORMATION, ATTITUDE AND INNUENDO
weeks before my retirement. Would thing where people tell you what


Never fear, brave readers! That yearly plague called February is dam near over. The Gipp can’t wait for the fabulous month of March and its many redeeming qualities including less snow, ten days of vacation and St. Patrick’s Day. Not only that, but the Gipp gets to retire soon, and boy, is he ever looking forward to it. Oh yeah, before I forget, I have one last request in the two
someone please tell the powers that be to get the Gipp’s sweater back from that Bonzo schmetz who used to be President? People honestly think that because he played the Gipp in a movie, he has aright to wear an ND letter sweater. Not so, says the Gipp. And besides, it’s cold here.
JOBS? FOR DOMERS? HA!
An irritated senior writes the Gipp (through e-mail) that our ever-thoughtful administration is really looking out for students who need jobs. It seems that the authorities were notified of a real job fair (that is to say, one where resumes are ac
Ifyoudoh’t feellike theGippisansweringyour questions, you can always jsendthemtp&esidb^
ietters of thanks for those hew taxe^	Clinton's Internet
address is “753003115@COMPUSERVE.COM.” Those of you who read; Wj“hewsgroups”;cah^
^ne^gKttodjfoli^
“aixpolitics.org.misc.u	gg
cepted, unlike Career Day) at IUSB not long ago. Although the fair was primarily for the benefit of IUSB students, Notre Dame students would have been accepted for a slightly higher fee. No one here knew about this opportunity, however, because the au
thorities who were informed failed to publicize it. Perhaps Career and Displacement felt that its toes were being stepped on? Maybe the university thinks that anyone who isn’t an engineer or an accountant doesn’t deserve a job? Come on, folks, this was a job fair where someone might actually have found employment! This is important! Notre Dame thinks a Career Fair is some-
jobs they do; that’s great, but some of us are going to be living in homeless shelters unless we get hired somewhere soon, and this was a chance for real jobs!
QUICK QUESTIONS
The Gipp is always looking for answers to the mysteries of campus and hoping that one of you readers might know. Yes, it sounds like the Gipp is lazy, but really, he is just an intermediate step on the rumor mill. If there is interest, the answers will come.
Anyway, here goes a new batch: Why does Nieuwland have only one women’s bathroom on the first floor? Why do the bells of Sacred Heart ring twice at noon and six? Why does the dining hall
serve both ranch and light ranch salad dressing? Is it true thatparietals don’t apply to art students? Why does only one elevator in the library go to the infamous third floor?
As usual, send hate mail, questions and responses to “gipper@nd.edu” or 303 LaFortune. Remember, in two issues there will be an entirely new Gipper, so get your complaints in fast!
WHY?

' foThe Gipper spotted a^b^hen walking to dass fto^ forfsfo^r^ysp^^ Notre Danie hire a- neglige^ thosearcliitects realiywereasclueless astheyappear fojiayeifeh^Aifo^
exit-tolessen'thetrafficat; theoverused(read:jam
FEBRUARY 25g93



TO

■.

LEPRECHAUN
Tryouts for the new Leprechaun are posing some interesting questions
by Michelle Crouch
It is the end of an era. Dan Wagner,whom many believed to be one of the best mascots in Notre Dame’s history, is graduating. The time has come for him to pass on his position to another. For better or worse, another Leprechaun is on the way.
This year, not only will there be a change in the personality of the Leprechaun, but many changes also confront the traditional image of the Leprechaun itself. They have eliminated the usual requirements that all candidates need to be 5-feet-9inches tall or shorter and need to have a full-length beard. There is also talk of giving our mascot a papier-mache mask to hide behind and of having two Leprechauns. Also for the first time, one of the ten candidates trying out this year is female.
The idea of substituting a mask for the traditional facial features of the Leprechaun has sparked much controversy. Only two other mascots in the country, USC’s Trojan and Florida State’s Seminole Indian, retain human mascots like Notre Dame’s Leprechaun. Having a mask would broaden the scope of possible mascots by allowing both women and minorities to vie for the position. However, all of the candidates interviewed did not wholeheartedly embrace the idea.
“It’s good for other universities, but as far as Notre Dame, I think that as long as there are people who can look the part, they should keep it The way it is right now, [the Leprechaun] can talk to people and they can touch him — it’s much more personal,” explained junior Sean Trimber.
Sophomore Andy Budzinski agreed: “If we did have a masked person, he would only be recognizedat games. Also, the pep rallies and the community service work would be shot because you can’t talk through that kind of mask; if he took the mask off, he really wouldn’t be the mascot anymore.”
Despite the advantage that wearing a mask might give to the female candidate, a freshman from Saint Mary’s, she does not like the idea of a masked Leprechaun either. “I think having a mask would be a real down point. The Leprechaun now is a really personal image which helps the fans relate to him better. It’s more interactive if you’re face to face,” she said.
The woman trying out for the leprechaun wishes to remain anonymous. “I’m trying out the same as everyone else,” she said, “and a distinction shouldn’t be made. It would be unfair to have my name published.” However, she promises that she will “come out” if she makes it
The other Leprechaun hopefuls have
mixed feelings about the idea of a female leprechaun. “I believe in equal opportunity, but this doesn’t seem to me to be a role that fits. Traditionally, it’s a male role and it’s really hard to break that tradition,” said junior Casey Pfeiffer.
“It’s good that she’s trying out, and I like the idea that anyone can try out,” commented freshman Greg Long, “but the way it’s set up and from the past, it should be a male because of the things he has to do and tradition.”
Junior Tim Martersteck predicted that in the future Notre Dame would probably have one, but he didn’t think anyone is ready for “that big of a change.”
On the other hand, Trimber said, “Honestly, if she feels she can do a better job than me or anyone else, then give it to her.” Freshman Tom Ahem said, “It’s a great representation of the student body to see a female trying out for the Leprechaun.” On a lighter note, freshman Daniel Guinn admitted, “She dances better than any of us!”
If a woman does succeed at becoming next year’s Leprechaun, many questions will be raised, such as what she will wear, whether or not she should have a beard, and whether she should wear any kind of mask.
The female candidate said that she would not want to dress up as a guy, but instead as

a female version of the Leprechaun. “I’ve tried growing a beard for a long time, but it just hasn’t worked,” she joked.
Sophomore Jamie Glover said, “If you’re going to have a female Leprechaun, have a female Leprechaun. Let her be herself.”
Junior Sean Mulvey said, “I have no problem with a female Leprechaun — if.she can grow the beard, then she can be the Leprechaun.”
Whether the position is attained by a female or a male, next year’s Leprechaun is going to have a busy year.
According to Wagner, the job involves a very large time commitment. During the football season, he practiced two hours daily, Monday through Thursday, with the cheerleaders. Then his weekend was occupied with the pep rallies for which he served as master of ceremonies and, of course, at the games themselves. In addition, he spent a lot of time doing community service, making appearances, giving speeches and reading sto-(ries to children. Last week, for example, he spent a couple of hours teaching a girl scout troop the Irish Jig.
“It can be demanding because a lot of people look at you as a celebrity, and you have to keep your head on straight Firstand foremost, you are a student,” said Wagner.
Because of the huge time constraint, two Leprechauns will probably be chosen this year. One will be responsible for the varsity sports and the majority of the appearances, while the secondary Leprechaun will be presentatNotre Dame’s Olympic sports and will share in the community service work.
Pfeiffer thinks it is a great idea because “it takes a lot of pressure off the number one
Leprechaun and it gives another person an opportunity to get experience and attention. Plus, it’s a safeguard in case the other person gets injured.”
“There’s not a lot of support for the
Olym-
p i c sports,” said Glover, “and this will really give them a boost.”
Budzinski actually sees the secondary Leprechaun as a more challenging role because at football and basketball games, it is easier to get the
FEBRUARY 25,1903
Why WOllld yOU ITiake 3 gOOd
Tom Ahern 5’8", red hair, full red beard	L
Freshman, Flanner Hall.	\ :	;
"I believe I have the fearlessness, commitment and creativity to make a great leprechaun. I think that the leprechaun should be someone above everyone...and at the same time down to earth.” Andrew Budzinski 5’6”, dark brown hair, full dark brown beard Sophomore, St. Edward’s Hall ?:
“In high school, I was in a lot of musicals and l am used to being in front of a lot of people. I know how to make people laugh.” Female Candidate 5’5”, brown hair, .beardless , .
Fre&hman^Regina-Hair': \J
I’m always joking around. One of my abilities is to be able to laugh at myself and to get other people to laugh. Tm very energetic.” Jamie Glover 5’7", light red hair,, red beard Sophomore, Fisher Hall	jV
“I love having fun with lots of people. My enthusiasm and the excitement would make me a good leprechaun. I just Hhavejaiotofovefalluspir^^
Daniel Guinn 5’9”, brown hair (“It would be worth it to ; dye it.”), brown’ beard' ' Ki-v’	;‘	■:i V"
Freshman, Stanford Hall . L^ "I'm really comfortable in front of people and I like j i/ making a foot of myself.” h	pnK L- bit:	: n	:
Greg Long 5’9", light brown hair, light brown beard Freshman, Grace Hall y :;: ; ::	7
“I think rny personality fits it; I wouldn’t have to put on a fake show. Tm enthusiastic and I can go out in front of millions of people and do spontaneous things.”
Tim Martersteck 5’7 3/4”, strawberry blond hair, long reddish sideburns ; Lj/jj jjjij3£;.>£ (i.50::j JiJnid^.Ke^an''Hali.7'7M.?.;^
It’s certainly notthe:beard—it doesn’t seem to be wprking.j.l think I’m a hyper kid fve got the spunk of a leprechaun."
Sean Mulvey 5’8 1/2", brown hair, full brown beard j j t .
Juniqr^CavahaughiHallt^
'It's hard for me to get embarrassed and.I:like to be in the spotlig ht."; Casey Pfeiffer 5’8”, red hair, red beard	:;
Junior, Stanford Hall	,
“I definitely have the energy for it. l was the leprechaun in the Rudy film for half the shooting so I already know what it’s like.” Sean Trimber 5’7”, red hair, red beard'^ibL-i^>7/ Junior, Cavanaugh Hall	rJi:.'
“I was my high school;mascot; (Lenny, The Lone Wolf) so. I have ■ experience. , I have always been accused of being obnoxious. And I know I can jump around for a tew hours.” ;
Tony Vasoli, ’ 5’8”; reddish blond hair, reddish blond beard i; 7 Junior, Dillon Hall
“I think thatlhave a lotof spirit. I love Notre Dame—(grew up hers. When I’m at a game, nothing;can hold me back, something overcomes me — it’s a spiritual thing.” :	?
crowd involved, but at Olympic sports it is much harder.
Regardless of how the judges decide to change the image of the Leprechaun next
year, if they decide to change it at all, tryouts promise to be very challenging this year.
According to Wagner, ten candidates trying out for the Leprechaun is the most they
F9
9
have had in at least four years.
They will be judged on a large variety of criteria. Forty percent of the final decsion will be based on a personal interview that the judges will have with each candidate.
In addition, each candidate will perform the traditional Irish jig and an original jig which they make up themselves in front of the judges. The traditional jig is what the Irish guard usually does after a victory at the football games, with a “toe-heel-toe-heel-toe-toe” motion of both feet and a series of kicks. The original jig can be any kind of jig-like dance that the candidates wish to create.
The most interesting and probably the most nerve-wracking part of tryouts, however, will be the skits and the game situations. At this time, each Leprechaun will be required to perform a prepared three to five minute skit in front of a crowd of200 to 300 people. The format of the skit is completely optional as long as they incorporate Notre Dame into their performances. They will have access to a microphone, and they can have as many people as they want in their skit. Basically, according to Wagner, the idea is to “get the crowd all riled up.” Last year for his skit, Wagner did impressions to show that he could be the “all-purpose Leprechaun.” In the course of his skit, he imitated George Bush, Monk Malloy, Lou Holtz and played an Evangelical speaker.
After the skits, they will have the final part of tryouts, called “game situations.” In these, each Leprechaun will pick a situation out of hat and will have from 30 seconds to one minute to think of something to perform in that situation. For example, it might say something like “You’re in Penn State territory, and they just had a huge anti-Notre Dame pep rally. What do you do or say to get the Notre Dame fans excited?” At this time, their appearances will also be taken into account so most of the candidates will probably either buy, make or rent some type of Leprechaun outfit.
Although the Leprechaun hopefuls are somewhat nervous about the public part of the tryouts, most of them share the female candidate’s opinion, “The best part that really shows the person’s personality is the skits. And it’s a chance to show your creativity and that you’re able to laugh at yourself.”
a tongue twister to make a cheer out of; so
Bmaginecheering atthefootballgarnes he was juclmamed--W
while watching an Irish Terrier barking pf official mascot, that eventually became viciously on the sidelines instead of the known as “Clashmore Mike,” was passed Notre' Dame Leprechaun doing push-ups down from caninetocanirie.Thedogwas and various other acrobatic: feats. Or walk- required to run rambunctiouslyaroimdthe ingintotliebookstore.andinsteadof being stadiumduring-Iralf-tim^
; bombarded by Leprechaun paraphernalia, games. The Irish Terrier was dressed in a •buying a sweatshirt with a terrier embroi- . little green coat.and spent most of the half-deted bn it .Somehow Notte Dame just rfime show b^ihg. :<
would not be the same without an ehthusias-	When the last Clashmore Mike died clur-
tic,red--haired mascotin the shamrock green ing the earlyl960s,asketchof thefamiliar britches.. < 'LL ■	-'L/'L-.L ;	< Fighting Irishman that wekriowtodaywas
, It	circulated, arid in 1965, the Leprechaun
] time, Notre Dame existed without the .Lep-1 replaced the troublesome temer as Notre rechaUri/' Actually, fbr many years, Notre Daine’s official ma^v ' L
Dame had no official: mascot at all. Fans, J Today, tlie Leprechaun ranks right up rival teams and sports commentators werethere with the gold dome iri identifying forcedtp make uptheirown nicknames for ffotre Dame. He is a majormemberof die :pur school. They c up^with such “clas- Notre Dame family.; He is .emblazoned sics”, as “The Horrible Hiberians;” “The /upondining hall;iray.s, sweatshiits, hats, South:Benders” and ‘/The Nomads,” until r .backpacks, keychains and other novelties they jfi^ly came up with one; that stuck: bailable m
'“ttbFightiriglrish.T/r
‘ i SlriitMly mt^t tb bb an-ihsult to die:pre- , :; at least brie alum domin^tly Irish 'immigrant student body , J corduroy pants vvith the little^ “TheFighiingIrish”hascometosymbolizc embroideredontheiu / P dipielehtless and prpud spirit that character- :The zealous spirit of the Lep^^ gzesNpte;!^^	namewasofficially,/: atesa“FightingIrish”identityforallNotre
j 1927,andthis spurred.the selectionofNotre thosewhograduatedafterl965.Onewon-Dpme’s/firspma^t ih 1930, Coach Knutc - fders if A
;;Rppkrie’a feisfy; Irish Terrier;
“I’m anxious to get out in front of these people to see if my confidence is unfounded or not,” remarked Ahem. “You don’t really know if you’re a good marksman until you shoot something.”
The judges for the Leprechauns have yet to be chosen. According to Wagner, they will probably recruit former cheerleaders with no affiliation to anyone trying out, judges from the Universal Cheerleading Academy, members of the Alumni Association and faculty members to judge the Leprechauns.
The tryouts this year will take place on the
weekend of March 19 and 20. The cheerleader and Leprechaun tryouts are open to the public, and students are encouraged to attend.
The competition looks to be tough this year with the high number of students trying out. To these Leprechaun hopefuls, Wagner offers a very Leprechaun-sounding piece of advice: “Some people are cut out for this position and some people aren’t. The best possible thing to do is to be yourself. That way, no matter if you get it or not, you’ll still be a winner because you were yourself. After all, the spirit comes from the heart.” □

fi—IE—■BgggiW
■
your body by a glorified, sterilized vacuum.
by J. Bradley Keck
7 n
FEBRUARY^gg^
2
)7. King Missile 8.Zuzu’sPetals
;{&Magnetic.Fields
HappyHour
■WhenNbP
3. Dinosaur JR—WhereYouBeen
*Domest i b:	j 4:
assess
JWVMTOP TEN -4/'
Superchu^
Belly”-- Stair. . <	4 4 /
A.la^-Dis?? gSyQuipkisandyy Slip . 6. Therapy?:.^
Eric Clapton — best song, best album, best candidate who appeals to older Grammy voters. But hey, I guess it is better than the Beauty and the Beast Soundtrack.
Rashgate
There is a semi-confirmed rumor that appeared in various news outlets over the past 10 days. According to some high ranking Democrats and some insiders at Chelsea Clinton’s Sidwell Friends School, Chelsea supposedly went to the nurse’s office with a rash on her arm. The nurse then asked if her mom had seen the rash. She replied that her mother had not seen the affliction. The nurse was then going to give her some ointment to relieve the symptoms but when she checked Chelsea’s file her parents had not yet signed the medical release form. The school nurse then meekly asked Chelsea I what should be done. Reportedly Chelsea said either, “Don’t call my mother; she’s busy. Call my father,” or “You’ll have to call my dad — my mom is too busy.” Believe it or not. The nurse then reached the President on his private number supplied by Chelsea and approved the medication. As you know O.O.B. never lies and in This case is supported by The Washington Post, Newsweek, The Daily Telegraph, Roll Call,The Houston Chronicle andTheL.A. Times. WhentheWhiteHousewasaskedto respond they only said, “We don’t know if it is true or not” Well, I guess it’s true.
Rap Ties
Janet Reno, Clinton’s Attorney General (finally) has been discovered as the second woman in the Clinton Administration with rap ties. First it was Tipper Gore who, it might be remembered, was immortalized in RUN-DMC’s “Mary, Mary Why You Buggin?”’ Now, Village Voice, reports that
Reno was also celebrated by rap music during the late 1980s. Anquett, aMiami trio recording on Luther Campbell’s Skyywalker label, had a song entitled “Janet Reno.” This little ditty is filled with pleasantries regarding the former Miami prosecutor. One favorite line: “She’ll lock your butt up, now you don’t know what to do/The boys on the avenue are sure dissin’ you [Janet].” It is nice to know that Clinton has strong ghetto ties — for better or for worse.
The Grateful Dead — Stung “I want to see this Dead head phenomenon. I want to see it first hand,” Sting ttMBillboard Magazine last week.
Sting really wanted to see the Grateful Dead in action blit going to one or two shows he thought would not be enough. He then got in touch with the Dead and they invited him to open some of there stadium dates this summer. Sting said he would love to join them after his new album, Ten Summoners Tales, comes out on March 9 and between his own world tour dates. After some discussion Sting and the Dead, unlikely bed fellows, will be sharing the stage for concerts in Giants Stadium, Buckeye Lake, Rich Stadium, Soldier Field and RFK Stadium.
Not Funny Fatty, Just Gross
Roseanne Arnold talked openly on this Wednesday’s edition of Hard Copy (what a classy show). Among other big items she admitted to having numerous plastic surgeries. She said that one of the operations she underwent removed one and a half pounds of fat from each of her breasts. You mightrecall that Roseanne has a tattoo that said “Property of Tom Arnold,” on her left breast Joking during the interview about her operation she said that the tattoo now “just says T.” I miss the humor of (a) having a tattoo that says property of anyone and (b) getting three pounds of fat, blood and tissue sucked from
Up and Coming
Prince on tour over break in Atlanta, Charlotte and Fairfax, VA... Chelsea Clinton’s birthday this Saturday ... Dave Letterman to stay in New York at the Ed Sullivan theater. I’m glad to see him performing where other legends of entertainment did for over 20 years.... Tickets now on sale for The Will Rogers Follies, March 9 to April 17 at the Shubert Theatre ... Due to popular demand (ha!), the Star Plaza has just added a secondHowie Mandel show on March 30... The Shrine Circus, thru March 14 at the Medinah Temple ... David Copperfield, thru Sunday at Star Plaza... Izzy Stradlin & The Ju Ju Hounds, Friday at Club Metro... New at the movies: Falling Down, starring Michael Douglas... New in Record stores Tuesday, albums by: Living Colour ... Lulabox ... Graveyard Train ... Michael Feinstein... Giant Sand ...Screwtractor... Dumpster Juice... Spooky... Kid Rock... Murray Attaway... Bill Laswell.



Send information for your event to: Kate Wiltrout, Coming Distractions, Scholastic Magazine, 303 LaFortune, or call 239-7569.

Thursday
25
Movie: "Strange Brew," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Sophomore Literary Festival Reading: Edward Albee, Hesburgh Library Auditorium, 8:00 pm.
Play: The Heidi Chronicles, Washington Hall, 8:10 pm., $7.
Visiting Artist Lecture: "Video/Installa-tion Artist," Bill Viola, Snite, 7:30 p.m. Play: "Oklahoma!" OLaughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's, 8:00 pm., $5 for students.
Basketball: Notre Dame men vs. Duquesne, JACC, 7:30 pm.
Friday 26
Movie: “Unlawful Entry," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2. Film: "Heathers," 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
Creative Writing Workshop: Edward Albee, Notre Dame Room, LaFortune, 9:00 a.m., limited space available. Play: The Heidi Chronicles, Washington Hall, 8:10 p.m., $7.
Play: "Oklahoma!" OLaughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's, 8:00 p.m., $ 5 for students.
Track: Notre Dame men, Wilson Pentathalon, Loftus, 6:00 p.m.
Saturday
Movie: "Unlawful Entry," 8:00 & 10:30 p.m., Cushing Auditorium, $2.
Film: "Heathers," 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., Snite, $2.
Play: The Heidi Chronicles, Washington Hall, 8:10 p.m. $7.
Play: "Oklahoma!" OLaughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's, 8:00 p.m., $5 for students.
Tennis: Notre Dame men vs. Illinois, Eck Pavilion, 1:00 p.m.
Lacrosse: Notre Dame men vs. Canisius, Krause Stadium, 1:00 p.m.
Track: Notre Dame men and women, Alex Wilson Invitational, Loftus, 10:30 a.m.
Windy City Shuttle: Tickets available at LaFortune Information Desk, $10.
For More Information (Jail
LaFortune Information Desk:
Senior Class: 631-5136
StudentUnionBoard: 631-7757
Junior Class: 631-5117
SniteFilm Series Hot Line:
;631^36i?: p
Sophomore Class: 631-5225
NT) News Line: 631
JACC Ticket Information: 7.i
NotreDameMenuLine:631 -0111
Weekend Wheels Schedule:
TduchFhU®
Dial 239-2500, then press: x 6050fornewsheadlines x 6052 for world news x 6121 for top pop a x 6571forprimetimeTV x6129forvideo releases
x 1031 for local weather
x 6736 for national weather
x 946 3 for thbuglit for the	f
x6238forTV sports events
x 6230 for national sports report x6263 forcollege basketball
Sunday 28
Recital: Guest Clarinet Recital, Janet Hilton, Snite, 100 p.m.
Play: The Heidi Chronicles, Washington Hall, 3:10 p.m., $7.
Play: "Oklahoma!" O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's, 2:30 p.m., $5 for students.
Tuesday 2
Film: "A Place in the Sun," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
Film: "Bye Bye Brazil," 9:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
Basketball: Notre Dame men vs.
Valparaiso, JACC, 7:30 p.m.
Student Poetry Forum: CSC Coffee House, 8:00 p.m.
TOUCH
FOUR
Wednesday 3
Tennis: Notre Dame men vs. Indiana, Eck Tennis Pavilion, 3:15 p.m.
Monday 1
Film: "Sisters," 7:00 p.m., Snite, $2.
Film: "Science Friction," "Our Lady of the Sphere," "The Visible Compendium," "Common Loss" and "Light Years," 9:15 p.m., Snite, $2.
Basketball: Notre Dame women vs. Duquesne, JACC, 7:30 p.m.
MovieTheatres
lOOCenter Cinema I&n
1	259-0414
Art Exhibitions on Campus
ScottsdaleTheatre
Appalachian Photographs, Shelby Lee Adams
-Photography Gallery, Riley Hall
Annual Faculty Show
-West Gallery, O'Shaughnessy Hall, Snite Museum of Art
Shades of Orange, Don G. Vogl
-East Gallery, O'Shaughnessy Hall, Snite Museum of Art
Six Great Printmakers
-Printing, Drawing, and Photography Gallery, Snite Museum of Art


Town & Country Theatre 259-9090
University Park Cinema East:
University Park Cinema West
1111727^
Forum I & II Cinema
277-1522
The Birth
i i I
of Tradition
It took Irish baseball Coach Pat Murphy five years to get his team to the top
I i i i
by Jason Conte
For years, when the word “tradition” wasmentionedontheNotre Damecampus, football automatically came to the mind of the common Irish athletics fan. However, in recent years, another varsity sport has begun its own tradition. Notre Dame baseball has been transformed from a mediocre, middle-of-the-roadprogramintoanational powerhouse in just fiveshort years.
The short journey to national prominence began inJuneof1987. The baseball team had come off a 15-29 season and was going nowhere fast when Coach Pat Murphy was hired to replace Coach Larry Gallo. The following season, with relatively the same group of players who had never enjoyed a season above .500, Coach Murphy led them to a Midwest Collegiate Conference (MCC) title and a 39-22 record.
According to Coach Murphy, “It wasn’t really recruiting that turned it around. We just instilled an attitude and called for a commitment. WesaidtoplayatNotre Dame, baseball is going to be special and you’re going to have to be
committed. This commitment with a disciplined attitude made the players start to believe in themselves and say we are a winning program.”
Coach Murphy spurred Miami to stay at Notre Dame.
Now, the Irish have won 45 games or more in each of the last four years. They have finished in the top eight in winning percentage the last three seasons and are 139-43 over this time period for a .764 winning percentage. This record is good enough for fourth among all Division I schools. Last year, Notre Dame won the MCC with a school record of 48 wins and earned its bestNCAATournament finish in 35 years. The team finished the season ranked 15th in Baseball America, 14th in USA Today, and 14th in Collegiate Baseball. The team was one game away from a trip to the College World Series in Omaha.
This is quite an impressive record for a school from the North that is known for football. Coach Murphy explains, “We don’t have a full compliment of scholarships. We have the adversity of weather, we have the adversity of playing our first 20 games on the road and we have the adversity of having to practice indoors. But those are all excuses. We don’t make excuses. We have just said we’re going to go as far as we can go.”
Besides instilling this winning attitude, Coach Murphy has ac
complished what was once thought to be impossible. He has convinced the university to build a stadium located on the campus.
“It really is an exciting time for our program,” he glows. “I came here in 1987, and they laughed at me when I said we were going to build a stadium on campus someday. Now, our home opener next season will be there. I think this stadium is an indicator that the university is going to allow me to continue this crazy surge to win a national championship.” The new stadium, named after alumnus Frank E. Eck, is located next to the football practice fields and should be completed sometime this fall.
This spring, the Irish, ranked preseason 15 th in Baseball America, will play a grueling schedule front-loaded with top-ranked opponents. While most of the student body will be enjoying spring break, the baseball team will be in Arizona, competing against some of the top teams in the country. The Irish open their season in Tempe on Monday, March 8, against preseason 13th Arizona State. From there, Notre Dame travels to Tuscon to face second-ranked Arizona on back-to-back days. After finishing with Arizona, the team will jump on abus back to Tempe to face the California Angels in a charity night game. After a travel day on Thursday, the Irish will play a three-game series against preseason 9th Witchita State over the weekend.
According to Coach Murphy, this caliber of competition is a good test for his team. “We wanted to test this team early,” he says, “to wake them up early. We said that if you guys want to be in the same position we were in last year, playing that final game for the right to go to the national championship, you are going to have to face this type of competition at the end. . How we handle ourselves throughout the week and how we react after those seven games are over will be a very big indicator of what is to come. The idea is to get yourself prepared for that type of adversity and that type of competition. The process of how you go through it is the most important thing. If we can build some character and a team image when we go down there, that is the most important thing.”
After spring break, the Irish will play the rest of their schedule against MCC opponents and a few nationally ranked teams such as Kentucky and Indiana State. Al
though the MCC is stronger than ever, the Irish should have few problems defending their conference title. Evansville will probably provide the toughest competition for Notre Dame. The MCC Tournament will be hosted by the Irish from May 18 to May 22. Of their 56 games this year, they will play 34 on the road and 22 at home (12 at Coveleski Stadium down town and 10 at Jake Kline Field on campus).
Coach Murphy expressed his hope that this season student awareness and excitement will grow. “We were ranked higher than the football team last year,” he says proudly. “When you think of athletics at Notre Dame, you think of football and that is never going to change. But I think people know that Notre Dame baseball is for real. We have been the most successful program on campus the last five years with the possible exception of football and people have got to know that. For five years, year in and year out, we have been successful. I’m proud to be a part of that, but I don ’ t take the credit for that. I’ve been given a lot of credit for this resurgence into the national scene, but it really isn’t me.”
The players and the fans are what power this program, according to Murphy. He points to the fact that the captains from these past few years have all been walk-ons as freshmen. “I think that [having walk-ons become captains] is probably the greatest statement our program can make,” he explains. “Itreveals the development that goes on in our program. These players develop not only baseball skills but leadership and life skills.” ’
Some of those players that have developed under Murphy are now ready to lead Notre Dame to the College WorldSeries. Ed Hartwell, this year’s walk-on outfielder turned captain, was the second leading hitter on the team last year with a ,359 average. Eric Danapilis, a preseason All-MCC selection by Baseball America, led the team with a .377 average last year. According to Murphy, “He is one of the most underrated players in college baseball.” Paul Failla, the backup quarterback for the football team who was selected to the second team Freshman All-America team last year, hit .292 last year while playing the outfield.
Along with thispotentoffense,NotreDame has one of the best starting rotations in all of
college baseball. Al Walania, voted preseason All-MCC by Baseball America and “one to watch” by Collegiate Baseball, had a 2.94 ERA last year, earning All-Atlantic regional honors. He is tied for second on the all-time Irish win list with 25 and needs only three wins to become the all-time leader. Chris Michalak, named preseason MCC player of the year by Baseball America, led the team last year with a 2.20 ERA and was named to the All-MCC regular season and all-tournament teams. Dave Sinnes, named “one to watch” by Collegiate Baseball, was 8-1 last year and is fifth on the all-time win list at Notre Dame.
Murphy comments, “I look at that pitch-ingrotationandseeself-madepitchers. Those guys havereally developed themselves. They are not super-talents. They are just solid overall good pitchers.”
With this foundation set, Murphy is looking to get back to where the team was last year. “I feel that this is going to be a real good team at the end of the year,” he predicts. “I know what we sniffed last year. We were in the final game to go to Omaha. We know that we are good enough to go to the World Series.”	.
Once Coach Murphy takes a team to the College World Series, he will have accomplished the first part of his goal. However, Murphy does not talk about one-year phenomenons. He talks about establishing a tradition of excellence. He wants to be mentioned in the same breath with the traditional powers of Texas, Miami and Witchita State. So true is he to this goal that he turned down an offer to coach at Miami in order to stay at Notre Dame.
“My goal is to make Notre Dame baseball tradition for a long time. When I say things like ‘we’re a great program’ and ‘we’re the best kept secret on campus,’ I believe that We have tremendous disadvantages in college baseball. We don’t have the weather and we don’t have the financial support that some of the teams across the country that we beat up on do. But I don’t say that with an egotistical thing in mind. I’m just part of this program. I know who empowers this program and that is those players. That is what this program is all about. They are what has made this surge. They have made me look good. There is no question about it Those players have made me look good.” □
FEBRUARY 25||[|93
A Job Well
Done
In its inaugural season in the CCHA, the Irish hockey team has earned respect
by Joellen Shannon .
When a first glance at this year’s Notre Dame hockey team is taken, it does not see victory or success. And one might be deceived into thinking that because the team isn't winning that it is a failure. However, this is truly not the case. Like many hockey coaches, Irish head coach Ric Schafer’s goal is to develop his team into one of the top teams in the nation. However, this goal would be unattainable without an entrance into the top league in college hockey: theCentral Collegiate Hockey Association. So withits goal focused, the team entered into this highly competitive league. However, there would be something to sacrifice for this year’s entry into the CCHA — namely, consistent winning.
The expense has bom its burden on the team's success in gaining victories. Some may look at the record of this year's hockey team and sense failure, but the team has entered the top echelon of hockey leagues. The CCHA holds the top teams in college hockey, and it has also produced four of the last nine national championship teams. There is no doubt that the CCHA is the most challenging of leagues with the toughest opponents. And it is because of this that the record of the Irish team does not reflect the team’s true ability and talent. In six games the Irish lost by only one goal, and in two games they lost by two. The team has been close to victory, but according to goalie Greg Louder, the team just isn't getting the breaks.
“We are working just as hard as everyone else, but we are just not getting the bounces,” he said. “We are so close to winning and sometimes this can become frustrating.”
“We are working just as hard as everyone else, but we are just not getting the bounces,” said goalie Greg Louder, who
Is one of the premier netmlnders In the CCHA.
There is no doubt that the numerous losses can become frustrating, for every weekend the team faces a tough challenge. Not only can the losses become frustrating, but the Irish have also suffered numerous injures to key players. Shoulder injuries have plagued players Jamie Morshead, Curtis Janicke, Matt Osiecki and Davide Del Grande.
However, numerous team members feel that those who have had to step up and fill in these position have done a great job. Teamwork is where the Irish find their strength.
When coach Schafer was asked if a star player existed on the hockey team, he said, “The team has no real superstar. They all work hard together to play as a unit”
However, certain players have certainly showed their superior
JJ||
ability to perform on the ice.
Freshman Jamie Ling is contending for CCHA Rookie of the Year with 35 points. However, Ling attributes much of his success to his teammates.
“I have the best linemates, and I really couldn't ask for better ones,” he said. “I think once we build our confidence the wins will come.”
David Bankoske and Curtis Janicke have moved up into the top ten in Notre Dame history for points, and Bankoske is the eighth player in Notre Dame history to achievelOO assists. He also has attained 174 career points which places him in the tenth spot on the Irish charts. Senior Sterling Black is only ten points short of being the thirty-sixth member of the 100-point club. The team is also backed by a strong defense featuring the talents of junior captain Matt Osiecki and seniors Dan Sawyer and Eric Gregorie. Anchoring the defense is goalie Greg Louder who, as a freshman, earned the team MVP. As a junior this year, he has stopped the puck 399 times, and he was recentlynamed CCHA/ Michigan Hockey Magazine Defensive Player of the Week. Despite all these diverse
talents, the only five players to see action in every game are Ling, Bankoske, Brett Bruininks, Jeff Hassleman and John Rushin. Hassleman, a sophomore, has played in all 59 games so far of his two-year career at Notre Dame.
Although the entrance into the CCHA has hurt the team's record, the benefits from the CCHA are enormous. Radio broadcasts on WNDU-AM and television coverage from PASS Sports Channel provide vast exposure for the team, and this exposure creates immense opportunities for recruiting. More hockey players are attracted to Notre Dame now that it is in the CCHA. Spectator interest has also been spurred by the Irish entrance into the CCHA, and ticket sales for hockey games have practically doubled. The competition the Irish face has sparked the attendance with such big names in hockey as Michigan,Michigan StateandLakeSuperior State. Both the players and Schafer feel the tremendous support from the fans, and they are pleased with the increased attendance.
Despite the numerous losses, there is no doubt in Schafer's mind that the entrance into the CCHA was a wise move.
“It is a good move for our team,” he said. “Itmaybehard for some people tounderstand being that we are in 10th place in the league, but it is definitely a great place for us to be.”
The close games for the Irish seem to be small consolation according to Schafer, but he is optimistic.
“The days will come when we beat those teams, and we will be the team on top,” he said.
This prediction is plausible, for the hockey team has youth on its side. It has a lot of upcoming talent that should push it through its tough competition in the CCHA. Successful seasons are envisioned with top rookies such as Ling, Bruininks, Morshead, Del Grande and Jeremy Coe.
In order to attain the truth about the Notre Dame hockey team, one must take in all aspects of the team’s season. The Irish are newcomers in a treacherous hockey league, and although they may have succumbed to the talent and experience of the other CCHA teams, the Irish feel no shame for the losses they have suffered. They are simply stepping stones to more successful seasons in the future.	□
MALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
FEMALE ATHLETE OF THE WEEK
Dan Grenough: Grenough, a sophomore from Jeffersonville, IN, led the Notre Dame men's track team to a fourth place finish at the Indiana Intercollegiate meetlast weekend. Forthesecondconsecutive meet, Grenough, a pole vaulter, has reached the 15-foot mark. He notched 15' 5” last weekend.
Lisa Tholen: Tholen, a junior from Wichita, KS, led the Notre Dame women's tennis team to victory against Louisiana State and Texas Christian. In a singles match against TCU Tiger Sam Owen, Tholen won 6-2,4-6,7-6. “Lisa really hung in there,” said Irish coach Jay Louderback.
by Moira Muldoon
Didn’t you always wonder where that wonderful song about surreys that Billy Crystal sang to Meg Ryan in When Harry Met Sally came from? Or did you know it was Oklahoma?! Kudos to those of you who did and for all of you who didn’t now is your chance not only to leam the answer to a serious bit of trivia, but also to see it performed live and in context in the St. Mary’s production of Oklahoma!
Running today through Sunday in O’Laughlin Auditorium at St Mary’s College, Oklahoma! is a musical set in Oklahoma. It is Old West to the hilt, complete with big silver belt buckles, striped overalls and accents that will raise blisters on your skin. These are country bumkins who think that Kansas City is the epitome of modernity and culture. Ya gotta wonder, folks.
The story centers around the romance between Curly McClaine (Francis Kelly) and Laurey Williams (AnnePugliese). Both stubborn, neither will admit to liking the other, much less being in love, and consequently each invites the other to the “box social.” Ah, the trials and misadventures of a Rogers and Hammerstein musical! But they are not the only star-crossed lovers: Ado Annie (Caimien Quigley) has her hands full with her fiancde Will Parker (John Ujda) and beau Ali Hakim (Tom Pace), and her father has a shotgun wedding in mind for one of them. As for who actually ends up with whom you’ll have to stay and see the second act to find that out.
The acting and singing are quite good; Kelly has a particularly strong voice that carries well and Colleen Loeffler is so convincing as Aunt Eller that one would almost believe she’d been bom and raised on a farm
somewhere in Antlers, Oklahoma. Pugliese also has a strong voice, Quigley is appropriately and sufficiently air-headed, and Gary Cappelletti is frightening enough as Jud Fry to warrant an excuse to grab your date’s arm for reassurance.
Along with a good cast, Oklahoma! also has a fantastic set Elaborate shingled houses replete with battered barristers and fading paint revolve periodically to allow for action both inside as well as out. Rocking chairs and clotheslines give the stage the feel of a small Oklahoma town. Additionally, they have an enormous windmill and wooden corral to lend the Old West atmosphere.
This production is a very unusual one. The cast is made up of members of the South Bend community as well as St Mary’s and Notre Dame students. Sarah Sullivan, a St. Mary’s student and chorus member, says that it is this variety that is the best part. She enjoys having a few people from the South
Bend community along with the students. St. Mary’s student Katie Pugliese shares these feelings and Mike Sayer, a senior at Notre Dame who admits that he was “roped into” doing the musical (for the third time in his career) by his room-|4ft mates, was disappointed that the musical is running op
Ken Osgood
posite The Heidi Colleen Loeffler, as Aunt Eller, and Francis Kelly, as Curly j Chronicles because it	MacClain, star in Oklahoma!
will limit the number of Notre Dame students attending. However, because so many South Bend residents are involved with the production, he sees no problem with filling the auditorium because lots of people from the community will be coming to see the show.
Basically, the show is a lot of fun. The Washington Hall Mainstage performances are wonderful, but it’s nice to see a musical in all its grandeur for a change. Go. See it Brave the thirty foot snow drifts. It’s a terrific cure for the February blahs.
Oklahoma! is directed by James Birder. The rest of the technical staff includesNancy Menk, musical direction; Indi Dieckgrafe, choreography; Shawn Wellen, Set and lighting design; and Sydney Wellen, costuming. Oklahoma is showing today through Satur- • dayat8:00andSundayat2:30atSt.Mary’s. i Student tickets are $5. Call the ticket office ; at 284-4626 or stop by O’Laughlin Audito- i rium to make reservations.	□ ;
The
by Peg Ward
The lights of Broadway were shining brightly on Washington Hall, as the
Notre Dame Department of Communication and Theater debuted its production of
Wendy Wasserstein’s 1989 Pulitzer prizewinning play The Heidi Chronicles. Under the direction of Professor Reginald Bain, the cast and crew brought to life the funny and touching story of an independent woman who reaches a point in her life where she questions the decisions she has made for herself.
Heidi Holland (Jennie Goodnow) is a successful professor of art history. A baby boomer, shebecameinvolved in the women’s movement of the 1960s and embodies the independence of the liberated woman. She “has it all.” Or does she? Now, in her forties and single, Heidi re-evaluates her life and wonders if her choices have been for the best.
“She doubts the faith of her youth and the beliefs bringing her into the women’s movement,” Bain added.
Much of the play is composed of flashbacks to past episodes that have shaped Heidi’s life. The audience, through the memories of Heidi, sees the relationships and events that have led to Heidi’s cunent social position. We meet Susan (Erin
Scoop, Stan Sawicki, and Heidi, Jeannie KenOss°od Goodnow star in The Heidi Chronicles.
Heidi
O’Malley), Heidi’s best friend, who introduces her to the women’s move
ment in the 1960s. Like many people during the 1980s, however, Susan becomes wrapped up in the “me generation” and abandons her beliefs for material wealth. Should Heidi hold onto her ideals of social justice, or, like Susan, leave it all behind for Hollywood?
Other relationships affect Heidi’s life, including her friendship with Denise (Cara Conway), a member of the younger generation that has benefitted from the efforts of older women such as Heidi. Denise appears to have it all together and does not question her role in life.
Heidi’s male friends include Peter (Mike Scarsella) and Scoop (Stan Sawicki). Scoop, in the words of Bain, “represents all the guys who understand the importance of feminists but don’t want to be married to one.”
Peter, meanwhile, remains a close friend to Heidi throughout her life. He is a loyal and sincere confidante, and this gay pediatrician eventually challenges Heidi to evaluate her past, present, and future.
Wasserstein’s play examines the importance of relationships in people’s lives and demonstrates how these relationships influence our choices and decisions.
Heidi, Bain believes, “is a hero, if you will, a woman taking charge of her own life.”
The pivotal role of Heidi is played by Jeannie Goodnow, a senior theater majorwhocurrentlyattends St. Mary’s College. Dr. Bain described Goodnow as “a very fine actress, a hard worker with a great deal of stage presence. Heidi is a very demanding
Chronicles
role, one that requires just such a presence.” Goodnow is no stranger to the stage, having appeared in Ah! Wilderness this past fall as well as Talking With, a St. Mary’s production. Goodnow looks at the role as being a tremendous opportunity.
“Heidi is a very real character, someone to whom every woman can relate,” she said. Goodnow can see how the play could appeal to all people, though, and not only women.
“The play is especially relevant to young people who are currently making decisions about their own futures and lives. Heidi is an example of someone who discovers that life is truly a journey, a continual process,” she explained.
The play, which opened Wednesday, February 24, will continue to run until Sunday, February 28. Sunday’s performance will take place at 3:10 p.m„ while the remaining performances will all begin at 8:10 p.m. Tickets for reserved seats cost $7 and are available at the door, in advance at the LaFortune Box Office, or may be ordered by Mastercard or Visa by calling 631-8128. Students can attend the Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday performances for $5.
“Wasserstein has written a funny, witty piece of entertainment that is also very provocative,” said Bain.
In Washington Hall, Wasserstein’s words are brought to life by a talented cast as well as a dedicated crew that includes stage manager Diane Withum, set designer Kevin Dreyer, lighting designer Bruce Auerbach and costumer Richard Donnelly, who has provided a wardrobe spanning twenty years of fashion that is sure to draw forth some laughter from the audience. This cast and crew presents an evening of Heidi Holland’s life that is both entertaining and full of interesting social relationships. □
FEBRUARY 25,1993	’ .:	..3C...19
=^=^===S-—
OlilliBlliifiiHM
News of the Bizarre from the
Nation's Universities
Penn State P.R. ।
Those original Pennsylvanians! The P.R. department of Housing and Food Services at Penn State has come up with this creative slogan: “Just Live It! ” (Hmm, does that remind anyone of the Nike jingle? Nah, it’s just me.) A recent ad in the Weekly Collegian features a photo of someone pulling a school I.D. card out of their pocket to the caption “Packin’ My Lunch PSU Style.” The ad reads, “It’s like carrying breakfast, lunch, and dinner in your back pocket. | Variety. Great Taste. Healthy Eating, too!” I’m sure it’s really i	healthy, if their food is anything like ours. At least their food service
;	makes an effort. I guess when you’ve got a monopoly on campus,
t	there’s no need to advertise. After all, what could our food service
say? “Got just 15 minutes between classes? Come to North Dining Hall and eat standing up. It’s faster!”
University Espionage
I Athletic recruiting is often cutthroat. But recruiting business i students? Come on folks, they’re BORING! Dale M. Hamel, an ।	assistant dean at Boston College’s business school, recently resigned
I after allegedly stealing a list of 600 prospective students from Northeastern University’s business school, his former employer, reports the Chronicle of Higher Education. Hamel claims to have compiled a personal list of top students and inadvertently added some names from Northeastern’s records while he was working there. Perhaps some of the students he recruited will be willing to I give him a job a few years down the line.
Spilling the Beans
It seems the University of New Mexico’s daily paper, the New Mexico Daily Lobo, has a Deep Throat of its own. An anonymous source sent an academic report listing the grades of the men’s basketball team, showing that the top seven players had a GPA of 1.1 or below. Eight of the team members were majoring in university studies (“Here is the dining hall. It was built in 1947.”) The
disclosure came to light after the university admitted that it allowed basketball star Steve Logan to drop and add two courses two weeks before the end of the fall semester, allowing him to retain his eligibility, noted the Chronicle of Higher Education. School officials first warned faculty members that they could face disciplinary action if they kept spilling the beans, and then declared three of the players ineligible.
Cardinal Cheerleader Controversy
Controversy has been raging in the editorial pages of the 5 tanford Daily. Surprise! It’s not about parietals, Hillary Clinton, abortion or ND/SMC relations. The controversy is about something real, something substantial, something you would expect from Stanford: cheerleaders! An editorial started the ball rolling, saying that the 3-year-old cheering squad should be “axed” because they don’t bring spirit to sporting events. “The loudest ‘cheers’ the Yell Leaders inspire is the collective groan of the crowd when they first appear at a sporting event,” states the editorial. David Carder, a football player representing 44 members of the team, wrote in defense of the cheerleaders: “The home-field advantage enjoyed by Arizona, Notre Dame... results when the stadium crowd is so loud that the opposing linemen cannot hear the calls of their quarterback. It will probably be a while before Stanford Stadium sounds like the home fields of other football powerhouses, but... synchronized clapping is certainly a start.” (Yes, it will be a long while.) In response to Carder’s letter, a physics graduate student wrote, “Cheerleaders: if you want crowd response, then be cheer leaders. Crowd the sidelines until you’re pushed back by security, yelling at the top of * your voice for the entire game. Not chanting ‘Dee (pause) Fense (pause) Clap (pause) Clap (pause)’ in a perfect 4-4 meter.” Wow. Good thing the Notre Dame cheerleaders have the student support they do.
Edited by Kate Wiltrout
□
= SCHOLASTIC
^ELL CJoNcS/ IC^EfiLL^ Think	^QING
TtT Be bJirU I His puecH^E. 'TP/s Gl pHiDbe Mill Last Fo^e^, ~guT- _ Going'To Need /vE^TiriCAriooi ~Befo^e I/Jq. Can
Plays include:
3
STUDENT UNION BOARD
Tickets available at Lafortune Information Desk.
i
I
J 3
o <£
□s t—
6 co
Seascape
• The Sandbox
The American
Dream
(Bus Leaves Main Circle at 1 (P.9*L
$30
niiiiTsd&y/ ^cBrtuiTy 2^
8T.M. fHesburgh
Library Auditorium
ING'S
Who’s Afraid of
Virginia Woolf?
The Zoo Story
ANOR
Visit Chicago by day and dine at a medieval manor by night.
6 course meal and 2 and half hour show complete with knights in
shining armor, fair maidens, and jousting!
February 27
free time in Chicago from 2 - 6 (P.M.
Upturn to^OX at 12:30 R.(M.